WELCOME TO THE NOVEMBER
FIRST REGULAR MEETING OF THE
PLANNING COMMISSION FOR
DETAILED INFORMATION ON THE
MEETING PROCEDURES, PLEASE
REVIEW THE PHIL PRINTED MEETING
AGENDA AS PROVIDED.
KELLY, WILL YOU PLEASE CALL THE
ROLL COMMENSURATELY AIR
CONDITIONER ABRAM'S HERE
MENTIONER WISCH HERE NORMAL'S
HERE.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT HAS
NOTED SHE WILL BE ABSENT THIS
EVENING COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
HERE COMMISSIONER SOLVAY HERE
COMMISSIONER CLARK COMMISSIONER
WETHERBEE HERE YOU HAVE A
QUORUM.
THANK YOU.
MOVING ON TO APPROVAL VIJENDER
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
COMMISSIONER I'M SORRY MILLS'
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER WAITZ
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR PLEASE SAY
HI.
HI AND HE OPPOSED THE MOTION
CARRIES THE MINUTES OF THE
PREVIOUS MEETING.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE MINUTES OF THE OCTOBER 17TH
COMMISSIONER MILLS AND COUNCIL
MEMBER TISH IS THERE ANY
DISCUSSION OF THE MINUTES ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE MOTION
PLEASE SAY I AND HE OPPOSED
SEEING NO ONE THE MOTION
CARRIES NEXT UP BY THE REPORTS
OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION AND
WRITTEN COMMUNICATION COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH I'M GOING TO START
WITH YOU.
NO REPORT BECAUSE COUNCIL HAS
MET SINCE THE LAST TIME WE DID.
THANK YOU, MAX KELLY, DO YOU
HAVE ANY REPORT?
I DO.
I WOULD FIRST OF ALL, I'D LIKE
TO INTRODUCE THE PERSON WHO IS
SITTING TO MY RIGHT FIRST DAY
FOR OUR NEW PLANNING SERVICES
INTERN JONATHAN AANENSON.
SO PLEASE GIVE A WELCOME TO
JONATHAN.
THEY WILL BE SHADOWING STAFF
AND LEARNING ABOUT THE PLANNING
COMMISSION THROUGH THE MEETING
THIS EVENING.
I ALSO HAVE A REPREHENSIVE PLAN
UPDATE FROM PLANNING MANAGER
LEINERT.
HE IS SCHEDULING A SUBCOMMITTEE
MEETING TO DEVELOP
RECOMMENDATIONS TO FINALIZE
YOUR STEERING COMMITTEE AND
ALSO THE CONSULTANT TEAM IS
REVIEWING PAST SURVEYS AND
STILL DOING A BIT OF EXISTING
CONDITIONS.
REVIEW THE TC ONE RESIDENT
PARTICIPATION MEETING FOR THE
REZONING OF SIXTY THREE PARCELS
ALONG WASHTENAW CORRIDOR WILL
BE HELD THURSDAY IN PERSON
NOVEMBER 16TH AT SIX THIRTY PM
AT PITTSFIELD ELEMENTARY SCHOOL
THE THAT LOCATION IS TWO FIVE
FOUR THREE PITTSFIELD BOULEVARD
IN THE FOUR EIGHT ONE ZERO FOUR
ZIP CODE AND YOUR WORK SESSION
NEXT WEEK.
I'D LIKE TO POINT OUT THAT THAT
IS ALSO ON A WEDNESDAY AND AT
THAT MEETING YOU WILL RECEIVE A
OVERVIEW OF THE CAPITAL
IMPROVEMENT PLAN PROCESS FROM
KAYLA COLEMAN WHO IS THE
CAPITAL PROJECTS ASSET MANAGER
.
THANK YOU.
DO OTHER COMMISSIONER OFFICERS
OR LIAISONS HAVE ANYTHING TO
REPORT?
ALL RIGHT.
MOVING FORWARD WRITTEN
COMMUNICATIONS ARE INCLUDED IN
TODAY'S PACKET.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE THAT'S
NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC HEARING
ON THIS AGENDA.
WELL, FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION THAN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS
TO SPEAK DURING
THIS PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE IF
LISTENING BY PHONE OR USE THE
RIGHT HAND FEATURE IF VIEWING
THROUGH THE WEB LINK FOR PHONE
ACCESS PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FORCE SEVEN AND ENTER MEETING
ID NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX
THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY
STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS
WHO'VE RAISED THEIR HAND USING
THE LAST THREE DIGITS OF THEIR
PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME IF
AVAILABLE FOR THOSE ACCESSING
THROUGH THE WEBLINK AND YOU
WILL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING PLEASE DO MOVE TO A
QUIET AREA AND MUTE ANY
TELEVISION OR BACKGROUND SOUND
SO THAT WE MAY HEAR YOU CLEARLY
FOR EITHER METHOD
OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND YOUR
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE HERE PRESENT
THAT WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT
THIS TIME?
MR. GARBER YEAH.
THANK YOU CHARLIE KANGAROO
COURT I'D LIKE TO SPEAK ON
THIRTY EIGHT SEVEN FOUR
RESEARCH PARK DRIVE I NOTICE IS
PUBLIC HEARING SO NOW IS THE
TIME RIGHT?
I BELIEVE THERE IS A PUBLIC
HEARING FOR RESEARCH PARK DRIVE
THAT'S OK.
WELL THEN WE THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
ANYBODY ELSE HERE THAT WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK ON A MATTER
THAT'S NOT LISTED ON THE AGENDA
SEEING NO ONE IS THERE ANYONE
THAT WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION REMOTELY?
THERE IS ONE HENDRY'S PHONE
NUMBER ENDING IN FIVE THREE
FOUR.
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO ADDRESS
THE PLANNING COMMISSION FOR
THREE MINUTES.
IT IS CALLING FROM IN ANN ARBOR
LATER ON TONIGHT WE'RE GOING TO
TALK ABOUT ONE OF SEVERAL CITY
INITIATED THAT REZONING OR
OTHER ZONING LAW CHANGES.
SO WE'LL TALK ABOUT THE DETAILS
ABOUT THAT ONE LATER.
BUT I WOULD LIKE TO THANK YOU
ALL FOR THE INCREASED WEALTH
THAT YOU HAVE CREATED THROUGH
OTHER VOTING CHANGES FOR PEOPLE
LIKE MYSELF, PEOPLE LIKE ME AND
MY INVESTORS THAT ALREADY OWN
PROPERTY THAT WOULD BE ABLE TO
GET A GREATER YIELD
OF IMMEDIATELY MAKE THAT
UNCONDITIONALLY WEALTHIER.
IT INCREASES THE VALUE OF OUR
PROPERTIES UNCONDITIONALLY THEN
WE CAN WE MAKE THAT MONEY.
I KNOW PEOPLE TALK ABOUT WELL
YOU CAN MAKE A PROFIT FOR
DEVELOPMENT NOW WE WILL HAVE WE
CAN GO TO THE BANK AND BORROW
AGAINST THAT MONEY.
WE COULD GO THE TOWNSHIP
COMMUTERS IF WE WANT WE CAN BUY
ANYTHING WE WANT TO DO.
SO IT'S THAT UNCONDITIONAL
ASPECT OF THE CITY IN THAT KIND
OF TROUBLE THAT I DON'T LIKE TO
MENTION THAT ONE OF THE OTHER
THINGS THAT DOES IT BY
INCREASING THE COST OF THE LAND
IT INCREASES ONE OF THE PRIMARY
INPUT IN THE DEVELOPMENT.
SO FOR WORKING FOR MY PRICE
HOUSING, THE FIRST THING WE DO
IS TO INCREASE THE COST OF ONE
OF THE PRIMARY INPUT IN THAT
HORRIBLE I'M NOT SURE THAT'S
THE WISEST THING TO DO BUT I
JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT I
PERSONALLY THINK ALL OF YOU AND
I'M SURE THE OTHER LANDHOLDERS
AND SPECULATORS OUT THERE BEEN
VERY GRATEFUL FOR THE RESULT
THAT YOU ARE CREATING FOR US
WITH SOME OF THESE INITIATED
DRONING CHANGES.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER CALLERS?
THERE ARE NO OTHER HANDS
RAISED, MR. CHAIR.
THANK YOU.
WE'LL MOVE ON TO PUBLIC
HEARINGS FOR THE NEXT BUSINESS
MEETING AND I WILL DEFER TO
STAFF.
A PUBLIC HEARING ON THE
FOLLOWING ITEMS WILL BE HELD BY
THE ARBOR PLANNING COMMISSION
ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 14TH.
TWENTY TWENTY THREE AT SEVEN
P.M. THE FIRST OF WHICH TWENTY
EIGHT FORTY FIVE SOUTH STATE
STREET WHICH IS A REQUEST TO
VACATE THREE AREAS OF ROADWAY
RIGHTS FRONTING TWENTY EIGHT
FORTY FIVE SOUTH STATE STREET
THE OWNER OF THE PROPERTY AT
TWENTY EIGHT FORTY FIVE SOUTH
STATE REQUESTS THAT THE ROADWAY
RIGHTS OVER A 50 FOOT BY TWO
HUNDRED AND TWENTY NINE FOOT
AND A 50 FOOT BY 50 ONE FOOT
AREA ADJACENT TO SOUTH STATE
AND A TWENTY SEVEN FOOT BY
THREE HUNDRED AND TEN FOOT AREA
ADJACENT TO EISENHOWER PARKWAY
ARE VACATED.
THIS ACTION WILL REMOVE THESE
PREVIOUSLY ACQUIRED ROADWAY
RIGHTS OVER PROPERTY AND RESULT
IN A UNIFORM RIGHT OF WAY EDGE
ALONG THE EAST SIDE OF SOUTH
STATE STREET BETWEEN EISENHOWER
PARKWAY AND BROOK DRIVE IN
ALONG THE NORTH SIDE
OF EISENHOWER PARKWAY BETWEEN
SOUTH STATE STREET AND
BOARDWALK DRIVE IN SECOND
PUBLIC HEARING WILL BE THREE
TWELVE EAST HURON STREET.
THIS IS LOCATED AT THE
SOUTHEAST CORNER OF EASTERN AND
SOUTH FIFTH AVENUE ZONE D ONE
DOWNTOWN CORE DISTRICT.
IT'S A PROPOSAL TO CONSTRUCT AN
APPROXIMATELY SEVEN D SEVEN
THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT SIX STORY
HOTEL BUILDING ON TWO PARCELS
TOTALING POINT FOUR OR FIVE
ACRES.
ACCESS IS PROPOSED OFF S FIFTH
AVENUE AND LEADS TO NINE
SURFACE PARKING SPACES WITH
STORMWATER DETENTION LOCATED
BELOW THE PARKING LOT.
NO REGULATED NATURAL FEATURES
WILL BE IMPACTED FROM THIS
PROPOSAL.
THANK YOU.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
SECTION EIGHT A UNFINISHED
BUSINESS.
THIS IS REGARDING THE THIRTY
FIVE TWENTY GREEN CORE.
THIS IS THE PLAN UNIT
DEVELOPMENT TAX AMENDMENT OR
CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL THE
PROPOSED AMENDED SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS WILL EXPAND THE
PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES OF THE
PUDI THE PERMITTED DEVELOPMENT
OR PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
EXCUSE ME THE PERMITTED
PRINCIPAL USES WOULD INCLUDE
MEDICAL DENTAL OFFICES WHICH
ARE CURRENTLY PROHIBITED WITH
THE EXPANDED DEFINITION
OF HOTEL WHICH WOULD CURRENTLY
WHICH CURRENTLY RESTRICTS HOTEL
DEVELOPMENTS TO EXTENDED STAYS
WITH HUNDRED ROOM MAX CAPACITY
WOULD PERMIT THE DEVELOPMENT
OF MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL
HOUSING WHICH IS CURRENTLY
EXCLUDED AND THE DISTRICT
INCLUDES THIRTY FIVE POINT TWO
ACRES.
THE STAFF RECOMMENDATION IS
POSTPONEMENT.
WE DO NOT HAVE ANY STAFF OR
PETITIONER PRESENTATION OF THIS
MATTER, IS THAT CORRECT?
THAT IS CORRECT.
AND THE REASON FOR THIS
POSTPONEMENT TO THE SECOND
REGULAR SESSION IN JANUARY OR
THAT REQUEST IS BECAUSE THIS
PETITIONER LATER IN YOUR AGENDA
IS ASKING TO BE INCLUDED IN THE
CITY INITIATED REZONING TO TAKE
ONE ALONG A PLYMOUTH ROAD AREA
AND THEY WOULD LIKE TO POSTPONE
THEIR PRIOR INTEREST IN IN ONE
DIRECTION TOWARD TAKE ONE AND
THEY AWAIT THE OUTCOME OF THIS
MEETING AND CITY COUNCIL
PROCEEDINGS.
THANK YOU.
SO WE'RE GOING TO GO TO PUBLIC
HEARING AND THE MOTION IS THAT
CORRECT THAT IS CORRECT.
ALL RIGHT.
WE'RE GONNA MOVE THE PUBLIC
HEARING THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR PERSONS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THE
PROPOSED AMENDMENTS.
WE WILL FIRST CALL ON
INDIVIDUALS TO PRESENT TO
ADDRESS THE COMMISSION, THEN
REMOTE PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK
DURING THIS PUBLIC HEARING
REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE
IF LISTENING BY PHONE OR USE
THE RAISED HAND FEATURE IF
VIEWING THROUGH THE WEBLINK FOR
PHONE ACCESS PLEASE CALL EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN INTERMEETING
ID NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX
THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS
THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR HANDS
USING THE LAST THREE DIGITS
OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME
IF AVAILABLE FOR THOSE
ACCESSING THE WEBLINK YOU'LL
HEAR AN AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT
SAYING THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK AND WHEN
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA MUTE ANY TELEVISION SOUND
SO THAT WE CAN HEAR YOU CLEARLY
AGAIN FOR EITHER METHOD
OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND YOUR
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK ABOUT THIS
MATTER AT THIS TIME?
YES.
CAN WE I CAN SPEAK FOR IS THIS
REGARDING THE THIRTY FIVE
TWENTY GREENE ROAD PUDI OH NO
I'M FROM PLYMOUTH ROAD IF THIS
IS REGARDING THE TSAY ONE THIS
IS NOT QUITE THAT TIME IT'LL BE
LATER IN THE AGENDA SEEING NO
ONE IS THERE ANYONE THAT WOULD
LIKE TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
REMOTELY?
THE PROPOSED MOTION IS TO
POSTPONE TO THE JANUARY 16TH
REGULAR SESSION MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER WHICH SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER EVANS DISCUSSION
OF THE PROPOSED MOTIONS.
MS VOICE VOTE WITHOUT OBJECTION
THAT MOTION PASSES ANY
OBJECTIONS?
MOTION PASSES.
ALL RIGHT.
WE'LL MOVE ON TO SECTION EIGHT
B WHICH IS THIRTY EIGHT SEVENTY
FOUR RESEARCH PARK DRIVE
SARTORIUS PHASE TWO SITE PLAN
FOR PLANNING COMMISSION
APPROVAL THIS IS WHERE THE SITE
PLAN IS ACTUALLY APPROVED.
PHASE TWO PROPOSAL TO CONSTRUCT
ONE HUNDRED TEN THOUSAND EIGHT
HUNDRED SQUARE FEET BUILDING
ADDITION ONTO THE EXISTING
BUILDING SEVENTY SEVEN NEW
PARKING SPACES WITH TWO NEW
CURB CUTS OFF RESEARCH PARK
DRIVER ALSO PROPOSED THE STAFF
RECOMMENDATION IS APPROVAL AND
WE WILL MOVE ON TO PETITIONER
PRESENTATION SUPERIOR
.
GOOD EVENING EVERYBODY.
I'M CANDICE BEAR WITH
MIDWESTERN CONSULTING.
I'M HERE TONIGHT WITH CAMERON
MCAUSLAN THE APPLICANT AS WELL
AS PETER MERTON'S FROM
SARTORIUS, TOM PHILLIPS FROM
HUDSON BLACK ARCHITECTS AND THE
CONTRACTOR FOR THIS PROJECT.
SO JUST FOR CONTEXT, THIS IS
PHASE TWO OF THE PROJECT.
SO YOU MAY REMEMBER FROM A YEAR
MAYBE TWO AGO SEEING PHASE ONE.
THESE ARE THE CENTRAL
PROPERTIES OF THE RESEARCH
PROJECT DRIVE INDUSTRIAL PARK
AREA SOUTH VINCENTI FOR EAST
OF ST. STREET, NORTH
OF ELSWORTH.
THE SITE IS JUST UNDER
SEVENTEEN ACRES.
IT IS ZONED ARI ORELL WHICH
ALLOWS FOR THE TO USE AS I
MENTIONED PHASE ONE OF THIS
SITE PLAN WAS APPROVED IN
FEBRUARY OF TWENTY TWENTY TWO
AND IS CURRENTLY UNDER
CONSTRUCTION.
THIS PHASE INCLUDES A PROPOSED
BUILDING ADDITION WHICH WOULD
EXPAND THE USES THAT WERE
PROPOSED FOR PHASE ONE MANY
ELEMENTS OF PHASE ONE WILL BE
UTILIZED AS PART OF THIS
EXPANSION INCLUDING THE PARKING
LOTS TO DRIVE ILLES THE SOLID
WASTE ENCLOSURE'S STORMWATER
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AND MANY
OF THE UTILITY CONNECTIONS THE
PROPOSED PHASE TWO IMPROVEMENTS
DO INCLUDE A SMALL PARKING LOT
EXPANSION, THE ASSOCIATED
LIGHTING, SOME UNDERGROUND
UTILITIES AND LANDSCAPING.
THIS SITE PLAN ALSO DOES
INCLUDE REMOVAL OF ONE LANDMARK
TREE WITH SIX MITIGATION TREES
PROVIDED.
SO AS I MENTIONED THE PROJECT
IS PRIMARILY A PROPOSED
BUILDING ADDITION.
IT'S ONE HUNDRED AND TEN
THOUSAND EIGHT HUNDRED SQUARE
FEET ONE STOREY BUILDING
ADDITION ON THE NORTH SIDE
OF THE PHASE ONE BUILDING
THERE'S ALSO PROPOSED PARKING
LOT WITH SEVENTY SEVEN PARKING
SPACES INCLUDING NINE EEVI AND
THIRTY TWO EVC SPACES WHICH
WOULD BRING THE TOTAL PARKING
ON SITE TO THREE HUNDRED AND
SEVENTY SIX VEHICLE SPACES.
WE'RE ALSO PROPOSING TWENTY SIX
ADDITIONAL BICYCLE PARKING
SPACES FOR A TOTAL OF FIFTY
EIGHT AND EIGHT.
ACCESS TO THE PARKING LOT WILL
BE PROVIDED FROM THE EXISTING
PHASE ONE DRIVEWAY SO WE WON'T
NEED A NEW DRIVEWAY FOR THE
PARKING LOT BUT WE ARE
PROPOSING TO NEW ACCESS POINTS
ALONG THE NORTH SIDE OF THE
BUILDING FOR TRUCK LOADING AND
UNLOADING AND FOR FIRE ACCESS.
WE'RE ALSO PROPOSING A NEW
CROSSWALK CONNECTION TO THE BUS
STOP THAT'S ON THE EAST SIDE
OF RESEARCH PARK DRIVE.
AS FAR AS UTILITY SERVICE, IT'S
PRETTY MINIMAL.
THERE WILL BE A NEW SANITARY
SEWER LEAD AND THE WEST SIDE
OF THE BUILDING CONNECTING INTO
RESEARCH PARK DRIVE AND A NEW
HYDRANT THAT'S BEING
CONSTRUCTED ON THE NORTH SIDE
OF THE BUILDING.
THERE ARE NO NEW DOMESTIC WATER
OR FIRE SERVICE LEADS.
THE PHASE TWO BUILDING WILL BE
SERVICED INTERNALLY FROM THE
PHASE ONE WATER NETWORK.
WE WILL USE THE EXISTING
INFILTRATION BASED AND THAT WAS
CONSTRUCTED IN PHASE ONE THAT
WAS SIZED TO ACCOMMODATE THE
RUNOFF FROM THIS PHASE AS WELL.
SO NOTHING NEEDS TO BE DONE
WITH THAT AS FAR AS STORMWATER
IS CONCERNED AND THEN FRANCHISE
UTILITIES WILL UTILIZE THE
CONNECTIONS THAT WERE THAT WERE
PUT IN FOR PHASE ONE AT THIS
POINT I CAN TURN IT OVER TO TOM
IF HE WANTS TO COME TALK ABOUT
THE NEW BUILDING
EVENING.
TOM PHILLIPS WITH SOME BLACK
ARCHITECTS HERE IN THE BUILDING
IS VERY MUCH IN CHARACTER WITH
THE EXISTING BUILDING THAT'S
UNDER CONSTRUCTION NOW IT'S
MADE OF SOPHISTICATED METAL
PANELS, INSULATED METAL PANELS
SYSTEM VERY SIMILAR
INTERLOCKING THAT EXCEEDS THE
CURRENT ENERGY
CODE REQUIREMENTS AND THIS
PHASE WE DON'T HAVE AS MUCH
GLASS BY PERCENTAGE BUT THE
GLASS THAT IS THERE IS IS ALSO
HIGH PERFORMANCE GLASS INTENDED
TO BLOCK SOME OF THE HEAT
COMING IN FROM THE SUN AND THEN
THE ROOF AS WELL AS IS WHITE
MEMBRANE ROOF THAT IS NOT ONLY
REFLECTIVE BUT THE INSULATION
OF THE ENVELOPE ALSO EXCEEDS
THE THE ENERGY
CODE REQUIREMENTS.
SO IT'S VERY MUCH IN CHARACTER
WITH THE FIRST PHASE OF THE
BUILDING.
A COUPLE OF PICTURES OF IT ON
THE TRUCKING AREA IS KIND
OF TUCKED INTO BACK THE
BUILDING ALONG THE NORTH EDGES.
CANDICE MENTIONED AND WE TRY TO
OFFER SOME VARIATION TO
GENERATE SOME INTEREST IN THE
BUILDING AROUND THE PERIMETER
AND CONTINUE TO EXPRESS KIND
OF THE HIGH TECH NATURE OF THE
CLIENT IN THE BUILDING ITSELF
AND THAT'S WHERE IT SO OK,
THANKS TO CAM , DID YOU WANT TO
MENTION SOME OF THE
SUSTAINABILITY OF THE PROJECT
MCAUSLAN WITH PORTAGE CAPITAL?
SO YOU KNOW THE SUSTAINABILITY
ISSUES THAT WE REALLY WENT
THROUGH QUITE A BIT ON THE
PHASE ONE WOULD CONTINUE AND
THIS PHASE WHICH WOULD BE FULL
IMPLEMENTATION LEAD GOLD STATUS
THAT WE ARE ACHIEVING AND IN
THIS PHASE PLAN TO DO FULL
SOLAR TO THE EXTENT WE CAN WE
CAN GET ON THE ROOF.
THAT'S I THINK THE ONE OF THOSE
PICTURES I DON'T THINK ARE
NECESSARILY REPRESENTATIVE
BECAUSE WE'VE GOT A PRETTY
SIZABLE SOLAR ARRAY ON THE
FIRST PHASE THAT TO BE
IMPLEMENTED OBVIOUSLY
EVERYTHING RELATED TO THE
CODE WITH WITH EV AND IN ANY
OTHER THINGS THAT WE WERE WE'RE
LOOKING AT THROUGH THE PHASE
ONE WE WILL CONTINUE WITH PHASE
TWO WHICH HAS BEEN A PRETTY
EXHAUSTIVE EFFORT BOTH BY
SARTORIUS AS A COMPANY WITH
THEIR INITIATIVES AND
SUSTAINABILITY AND IN IN KIND
WITH ANN ARBOR WITH WHAT WE
WERE TRYING TO ACHIEVE WITH
THIS PROJECT.
THANKS.
WITH THAT WE'RE HAPPY TO ANSWER
ANY QUESTIONS.
PERFECT, THANK YOU.
THEN WITH THAT I THINK WE GO TO
STAFF PRESENTATION.
MR. CHENG YEAH.
A PARTICULARLY GOOD JOB
OF MAKING AN OVERALL
PRESENTATION ON THE SITE.
THE ONLY THING I THINK I WOULD
ADD IS IS THE BLITZKRIEG THAT
RUNS ALONG THE NORTH PORTION
OF THE SITE.
IT'S A TWENTY FIVE FOOT NATURAL
FEATURES BUFFER THAT THEY HAVE
MET.
THERE ARE TWO ADDITIONAL TROOP
CUTS THAT ARE PLACED ALONG
RESEARCH PROJECT ON ON THE WEST
THAT AGAIN DOES NETCODE WITH
THAT VERY PURPOSE RECOMMENDS
APPROVAL FOR THIS PROJECT.
THANK YOU BUT THAT WILL MOVE ON
TO PUBLIC HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP THE THREE
MINUTES ABOUT THE PROPOSED SITE
PLAN WILL FIRST CALL ON
INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO ADDRESS
THE COMMISSIONED AND REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THIS PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE IF
LISTENING BY PHONE OR USE THE
RAISE HAND FEATURE IF VIEWING
THROUGH THE WEBLINK PHONE
ACCESS PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AN INTERMEETING ID
NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX THREE SIX
SIX THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX
CITY STAFF WILL CALL SELECT ON
CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR
HANDS USING THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME.
IF AVAILABLE YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE
HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK
AND WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE
TO A QUIET AREA AND MUTE ANY
TELEVISION OR BACKGROUND SOUND
SO THAT WE CAN HEAR YOU CLEARLY
FOR EITHER METHOD
OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS THE BEGINNING OF YOUR
COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME
AS PREVIOUSLY ADVERTISED?
KEN GARBER AGAIN.
SO THIS IS HARD FOR ME BECAUSE
SARTORIUS IS PART OF MY
PROFESSIONAL WORLD.
I WRITE SCIENTIFIC JOURNALS
ABOUT THE LIFE SCIENCES
INCLUDING SOME OF THE
APPLICATIONS THAT SARTORIUS
SPECIALIZES IN.
SO I SHOULD BE THRILLED THEY'RE
HERE IN ANN ARBOR BUT ACTUALLY
IT'S THE OPPOSITE.
WHY?
BECAUSE THEY'LL ADD TO THE
CITY'S CARBON FOOTPRINT IN A
BIG WAY FOR DECADES TO COME IF
THE ENERGY USE INTENSITY
OF THIS BUILDING IS THE SAME AS
WHAT SARTORIUS JUST CLOSED FOR
PHASE ONE TWO HUNDRED FIFTY
KILBEY TO USE PER SQUARE FOOT
PER YEAR I CALCULATE THAT THIS
NEW BUILDING WILL EMIT OVER
THIRTY FIVE HUNDRED METRIC TON
CO2 EQUIVALENT EMISSIONS A YEAR
EVERY YEAR THAT'S THE SAME AS
PUTTING SIX HUNDRED AND FIFTY
GASOLINE FUELED MOTOR VEHICLES
ON THE ROAD FOR THE LIFE
OF THIS BUILDING I REFER YOU TO
THE JUNE TWENTY THIRD LETTER TO
SERTORI SIGNED BY FORTY
PROMINENT ANN ARBOR RESIDENTS
SOME OF WHOM YOU PROBABLY KNOW
AND THE COMPANY'S RESPONSE
SARTORIUS DID NOT ADDRESS ANY
OF OUR SUGGESTIONS FOR REDUCING
ENERGY DEMAND OF THIS BUILDING
AND THUS THE REQUIREMENT FOR
CONSTANT ERICH'S CHANGE MOSTLY
FROM FEW FUME HOOD USE.
ADOPTING THESE INNOVATIONS AS
OTHERS HAVE SHOULD TAKE FOR
ELECTRIFICATION POSSIBLE.
ALTHOUGH THE COMPANY RECEIVED
ALMOST SEVEN MILLION DOLLARS IN
CITY TAX BREAKS AND STATE
GRANTS TO LOCATE HERE,
SARTORIUS AT LEAST THEIR
EXECUTIVE TEAM STILL ACTS AS IF
THEY'RE DOING US A FAVOR.
I SPOKE WITH MR. MCCAUSLAND WHO
YOU JUST HEARD FROM BEFORE THE
MEETING FOR A LITTLE BIT AND HE
MENTIONED TO ME THAT IT'S STILL
UNCERTAIN WHAT THIS NEW HUNDRED
AND TEN THOUSAND FOOT BUILDING
OR ADDITION WILL CONTAIN.
THE COMPANY STILL HASN'T
DECIDED APPARENTLY IT'S HIS
GUESS BASED ON WHAT HE TOLD ME
THAT THERE WON'T BE LABS THERE
THAT WILL CONSOLIDATE THE LABS
IN PHASE ONE WHICH IS NOW UNDER
CONSTRUCTION AND WE'LL PUT
OTHER STUFF IN THIS EDITION.
SO WHILE THE BUILDING SHOULD BE
ALL ELECTRIC REGARDLESS IF
THERE ARE NO LABS HERE, THERE'S
CERTAINLY NO EXCUSE FOR GAS.
I WAS CONFUSED BY MR.
MCCAUSLAND STATEMENT ON SOLAR.
HE REFERRED TO SOLAR ON THIS
BUILDING BUT IT'S NOT CLEAR TO
ME WHETHER THERE WILL BE
ADDITIONAL SOLAR BEYOND WHAT IS
PLANNED FOR PHASE ONE.
SO THAT'S A QUESTION I WOULD
HAVE MAYBE I JUST WASN'T
LISTENING CLOSELY IF SOLAR WERE
PLACED ON HALF ONE HUNDRED
TWENTY THE SQUARE FOOTAGE
OF THIS ROOF THAT WOULD BE OVER
ONE POINT TWO MEGAWATTS ENOUGH
TO POWER ABOUT ONE HUNDRED
FIFTY HOMES.
STAFF REPORT MENTIONS THAT I
ASK SARTORIUS TO INCLUDE ONSITE
SOLAR, A STORAGE ENERGY FOR
BUILDING ELECTRIFICATION AND
OTHER THINGS GOING FURTHER TO
SAY THAT QUOTE IT DOES NOT
RECOMMEND APPROVAL OF THIS
PROJECT.
I ASK THAT YOU POSTPONE THE
SITE PLANNED VOTE TO ALLOW
SARTORIS TO MEET WITH OSSI AND
WITH CONCERNED CITIZENS ABOUT
ADOPTING MEASURES THAT WILL
ALLOW FOR BUILDING
ELECTRIFICATION
.
THANK YOU SIR.
ANYONE ELSE PRESENT I WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS TIME
SEEING NONE IS OR ANYBODY
THAT'S ELECTING TO COMMENT
REMOTELY.
THERE ARE NO HANDS RAISED, MR.
CHAIR
.
OK, THANK YOU.
THE PROPOSED MOTION IS THAT THE
ANN ARBOR CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION APPROVES THE
SARTORIUS SITE PLAN LOCATED AT
THREE EIGHT SEVEN FOUR RESEARCH
PARK DRIVE MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH.
WE ARE IN DISCUSSION.
ANYONE LIKE TO KICK US OFF
COMMISSIONER MILLS?
I'LL DO THE QUICK ONE THAT
FOLLOWS ON NICELY TO ASKING
ABOUT SOLAR PANELS.
MY COMPUTER IS MAKING SOUNDS
BECAUSE I LOST CONTROL F ING TO
SEE IF I MISSED IT IN THIS
LIGHT SO THAT THAT WAS ONE
THING THAT I WAS CURIOUS ABOUT
AND TRYING TO HEAR THE
PRESENTATION AND AND SEE
OOCYTES REPORT TO WHAT ARE THE
PLANS FOR SOLAR ON THIS LARGE
ROOF THAT IS BEING ADDED SO SO
YOU CURRENTLY IN FIRST PHASE WE
DO HAVE SOLAR.
I WOULD BE REMISS TO TELL WHAT
THE STATS ARE BUT IT'S TO THE
EXTENT WE CAN GET PANELS ON THE
ROOF IT'S BASICALLY FULLY
COVERED .
THIS BUILDING IS A LABORATORY
BUILDING A LOT OF AIR HANDLING
EQUIPMENT SO WE ARE TAKING UP A
VAST AMOUNT OF SPACE WITH AIR
HANDLING EQUIPMENT THAT'S ON
THE ROOF.
SO WE'VE OBVIOUSLY YOU HAVE TO
BE YOU HAVE TO HAVE SOME
LOADING ISSUES WITH THE ROOF
AND ALSO WITH ACCESS AROUND,
YOU KNOW, THOSE THOSE UNITS.
SO TO THE EXTENT THAT WE HAVE
SOLAR THOUGH, IT'S IT'S PRETTY
MUCH THE ROOF IS COVERED EITHER
WITH MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT OR
SOLAR PANELS WHEN THIS THE
FIRST PHASE IS DONE YOU
WOULDN'T SEE THAT TODAY'S
VERSION IT'S NOT THAT FAR ALONG
YET.
WE ANTICIPATE THE SAME THING
WILL HAPPEN WITH PHASE TWO.
WE'VE GOT TO BE ABLE TO DO THAT
STANDARD TO BE ABLE TO KEEP UP
WITH THAT IN ITSELF BETWEEN ALL
THE OTHER BUILDING ENVELOPE
INSULATION AND VAST OTHER
THINGS THAT WE'RE DOING WOULD
ALMOST DICTATE THAT WE HAVE TO
GET THAT MUCH SOLAR ON THE ROOF
TO BEGIN WITH.
SO SO I'M THIS IS A QUESTION
FOR STAFF.
I'M NOT SEEING IT IN THIS PLAN
NECESSARILY AND AND IF IT'S
THERE THEN I DOESN'T KNOW THAT
PLAN BECAUSE THEY ALSO DID NOT
INDICATE ANYTHING IN PHASE ONE.
SO ARE WE MISSING SOMETHING?
I DON'T BELIEVE SO.
I DON'T THINK IT'S SHOWN US
EITHER THROUGH SO WE WANT TO
CONFIRM THAT.
I'M GOING TO SAY THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT'S GOING ADDED IN
THE FUTURE THAT THE PHASE TWO
SOLAR YES.
IT'S ON THE ROOF.
IT'S NOT ON ANYWHERE OTHER THAN
THE ROOF.
IT'S NOT THAT WE DON'T HAVE
ENOUGH ROOM ON THE SITE TO EVEN
PUT ANY ADDITIONAL ON THE SITE.
IF YOU LOOK AT THE PLAN FROM
THE STANDPOINT IT'S EITHER
BUILDING PARKING LOT OR OR
WATER MANAGEMENT STORMWATER
MANAGEMENT THERE'S NOT A WHOLE
LOT TO PUT ANYTHING ANYWHERE
ELSE.
BUT YES, I MEAN THE ANTICIPATE
THE SOLAR THE SOLAR IS ALMOST A
LITTLE BIT OF A DESIGN BUILD
THING AS YOU GO TO UNDERSTAND
WHERE WE CAN ACTUALLY PUT THOSE
THINGS WHEN WE HAVE SO WE WENT
IN PLAN THAT IN IN THIS PLAN
APPROVAL WE ANTICIPATE THAT PUT
AN OPTIMAL SO I ALWAYS SAY WE
HAD IT AND WE WE WOULD DISCUSS
AT LENGTH DURING PHASE ONE.
I DON'T THINK THAT ANY
REQUIREMENT THAT THEY WERE
LOOKING FOR, YOU KNOW, IS A
SIDE AND I I WOULD JUST SAY
IT'S NOT THERE RIGHT NOW WHEN I
LOOK AT THIS I SEE THAT IS A
HUGE OPPORTUNITY FOR PARTICULAR
RELIEF.
THERE'S NOT AS MUCH LAB SPACE
IN THIS SIDE OF THE BUILDING.
WE DON'T KNOW AT ONE HUNDRED
PERCENT THAT WAS THAT WAS THAT
WAS I WOULD PREFER YOU TO ASK
ME RELATED TO THE USE OF THE
BUILDING.
RIGHT.
WE DON'T ONE HUNDRED PERCENT
WE'RE WE'RE WE'RE WE'RE DOING
AT THE BUILDING RIGHT NOW THE
SERVER BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES
IN FRONT OF STORIES THAT
THEY'RE TRYING TO ASCERTAIN
WITH WHAT HAPPENS.
OBVIOUSLY THEY'VE GOT
FACILITIES ALL OVER THE WORLD
AND IN THE COUNTRY HERE AS
WELL.
SO THAT'S A MOVING TARGET A
LITTLE BIT.
YOU KNOW, ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT WE ARE THAT THAT AS WE SIT
HERE TODAY, CANDICE AND I,
WE'RE ACTUALLY JUST LOOKING AT
THIS PROCESS FROM THE START
OF IT IS ALMOST A YEAR AS WE GO
THROUGH THIS.
SO MUCH CHANGES IN THAT AMOUNT
TIME FROM A BUSINESS ASPECT.
YOU KNOW, THAT'S EVEN BEEN A
MOVING TARGET TO BE PERFECTLY
HONEST FROM WHAT WE STARTED
THIS OUT TO BE AND WHERE WE'RE
AT RIGHT NOW COULD BE COULD BE
LAB COULD BE OFFICE SPACE COULD
BE RESEARCH COULD BE A LOT
OF THINGS.
I THINK THAT THE FROM THE
STANDPOINT OF SOLAR I THINK
THAT WE WOULD MAKE A COMMITMENT
YOU KNOW, IF WE WANTED TO AMEND
ANYTHING FROM STANDPOINT THAT
WE ARE PUTTING SOLAR THAT LEED
REQUIREMENT THAT WE ARE TRYING
TO ASCERTAIN IS GOING TO PUT US
THERE REGARDLESS.
WE HAVE TO GET THERE WITH WITH
SOLAR AND IF THAT'S A
COMMITMENT THAT YOU'RE WILLING
TO MAKE, THAT'S SOMETHING THAT
I WOULD LOVE TO SEE IN PART
JUST BECAUSE I THINK I JUST
THINK THIS THIS WOULD BE A
LITTLE BIT OUT THERE RIGHT NOW.
WHAT EXACTLY HAVING DESIGNED
WHAT YOUR ROOF SPACE IS BUT
SOMETHING THAT SUGGESTS THERE'S
LOTS OF DIFFERENT THINGS THAT
COULD HAPPEN ON A ROOF.
RIGHT.
SO AND THERE'S A PLAY BETWEEN
ALL OF THESE WHETHER IT'S WHITE
ROOF TO BE REFLECTIVE FOR
COOLING, HELPING WITH COOLING,
WHETHER IT'S A GREEN ROOF TO
HELP ME INFORMATIVE FOR PUTTING
SOLAR PANELS ON THE ROOF.
I MEAN THOSE ARE THOSE BUT
THOSE ARE DESIGN CHOICES AND
I'M NOT AN ARCHITECT BUT I
WOULD I WOULD IMAGINE THAT
THOSE CHANGE HOW YOUR DESIGN
HOW YOU'RE THINKING ABOUT
DESIGNING THAT IT DOES WHAT I
WOULD DO ESPECIALLY WITH WHAT'S
INSIDE THE BUILDING AND WHERE
IT GOES AS WELL.
CERTAINLY WHAT I WOULD SUGGEST
IS THAT PARTICULARLY TO IN
PRESENTING AND TALKING ABOUT
WE'RE THINKING SPECIFICALLY
ABOUT THIS SPACE TONIGHT AND SO
THINKING WHAT'S ON THIS SPACE
AND AND THIS IS WHAT I'VE BEEN
TRYING TO SORT OUT IS WHAT
WE'RE SEEING VERSUS WHAT WE'RE
HEARING IS IT'S NOT IN KEEPING
SO SOMETHING IF THIS IS TO
INCLUDE SOLAR HAVING THAT
COMMITMENT TO MAXIMIZE SOLAR TO
THE EXTENT POSSIBLE ON THE ROOF
WOULD CERTAINLY MAKE ME FEEL
MUCH MORE COMFORTABLE ABOUT
THIS MOVING TOWARDS
SUSTAINABILITY AGAIN, I DON'T
KNOW ALL OF THE DETAILS OF LEED
BUT THERE'S LOTS OF THINGS
BEING IN A CITY LIKE ANN ARBOR
BIRJU.
SOME POINTS I LEAD FROM THE GET
GO SO I THINK THAT HAVING SOME
ADDITIONAL COMMITMENT WOULD
WOULD MAKE ME FEEL A WHOLE LOT
BETTER OTHERWISE I THINK THAT
THIS IS IN KEEPING WITH THIS
AREA I I THINK THAT THE WHEN I
LOOK AT THE BUILDING AND THE
PLANS WHAT I SEE IS HUGE
OPPORTUNITY SITTING THERE TO
HELP ADVANCE SUSTAINABLE GOALS
AND AND UNMET OPPORTUNITY.
AND SO THAT'S A THAT'S MY
COMMENT THAT I WOULD TURN IT
BACK TO THE CHAIR.
I WOULD JUST JUST INVITED AT A
CERTAIN POINT WHEN I TOOK THIS
FIRST PHASE IS A LONG TIME AND
I'M SURE THAT SIRTRIS WOULD
LOVE TO HAVE EVERYONE TO SEE
THIS BUILDING BECAUSE I WOULD
TELL YOU OUTSIDE OF A MUNICIPAL
BUILDING OR A UNIVERSITY
BUILDING IT'S PROBABLY THE MOST
ONE OF THE MOST SUSTAINABLE
BUILDINGS THAT'S EVER BEEN
BUILT IN ANN ARBOR, I CAN TELL
YOU AND THE GUY BACK THERE
WHO'S PAYING FOR IT ALL WOULD
TELL YOU THAT BECAUSE WE'RE
SPENDING A LOT OF MONEY ON
THINGS THAT THEY WANT TO
ACHIEVE, IT'S REALLY NOT BEEN
DRIVEN BY ANN ARBOR.
IT'S REALLY MORE OF THEIR
COMPANY, THE INITIATIVE THAT'S
GOT US THERE.
BUT WE ARE WE ARE INVESTING A
TON IN SUSTAINABILITY EFFORTS
IN THIS BUILDING.
IF YOU REALLY WOULD LIKE TO
EXAMINE SOME OF THE
SARTORIALIST INITIATIVES, YOU
WOULD SEE THAT THAT THERE'S A
HUGE GLOBAL GOAL FOR THEM AS
THEY PRODUCE MORE REAL ESTATE
AROUND THE WORLD.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER WHITE.
THANK YOU, HARELI QUESTION
FIRST FOR STAFF WHERE WOULD
WHERE ARE THE BROWNFIELD'S
NOTAT WITH THIS DEVELOPMENT?
IS IT IN STEAM AT ALL OR IS IT
COMPLETELY OUTSIDE BECAUSE I
JUST I HEARD SEVEN MILLION FROM
MR. GARBER BUT IT IS AT A 15
YEAR OR 30 YEARS AT THE TOTAL
AMOUNT.
I'M NOT PREPARED TO ANSWER THAT
QUESTION.
YES, I DON'T I DON'T REALLY I
DON'T KNOW IF SOMEBODY FROM
STAFF KNOWS.
WELL, I'LL I'LL TURN TO KELLY
SO SO THE MEETING THAT I MISSED
WHERE WE TALKED ABOUT GETTING
ANSWERS WE'RE BRINGING IN FOLKS
BECAUSE ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
I'M CONCERNED ABOUT IS THE
TAXPAYERS ARE PAYING A
SIGNIFICANT BURDEN BECAUSE
THEY'RE GETTING A TAX DEFERMENT
FOR FIFTEEN THIRTY YEARS AND WE
AREN'T GETTING SORT OF THE
SUSTAINABILITY OBJECTIVES THAT
I HAVE REQUESTED AND I KNOW
THAT THOSE TWO THINGS SIT IN
SEPARATE SPACES BUT I THINK
THEY SHOULD COME INTO THE SAME
SPACE SO THAT WE UNDERSTAND
THAT A PART OF WHAT WE ARE
APPROVING BECAUSE OUR
CODE HASN'T CAUGHT UP TO OUR
OBJECTIVES RIGHT NOW IS THAT
WE'RE ACTUALLY PAYING THEM TO
POLLUTE IN OUR COMMUNITY IN A
WAY THAT THEY WOULD NOT BE ABLE
TO IF THEY WERE BUILDING THIS
DEVELOPMENT IN THE HEADQUARTER
LOCATION OF THIS COMPANY.
SO HOW TO LIKE HOW DO WE GET TO
THAT INFORMATION SO THAT WE ARE
BOTH AS A COMMUNITY BETTER
INFORMED ABOUT HOW WE'RE
CARRYING THE TAX BURDEN OF THIS
POLLUTION?
WE CAN CERTAINLY INCORPORATE
THAT INFORMATION INTO STAFF
REPORTS MOVING FORWARD SO THAT
THEY'RE IN AN INTEGRATED
LOCATION FOR THE PLANNING
COMMISSION'S CONSIDERATION.
IF MR. CHENG DOES NOT HAVE THE
INFORMATION BEFORE HIM RIGHT
NOW I DO NOT I COULD ATTEMPT TO
GET MORE DETAILS TO CIRCULATE
BEFORE THE END OF TONIGHT'S
MEETING OR TO SHARE VIA FOLLOW
UP.
I DON'T I DON'T KNOW THAT IT IS
PARTICULARLY NECESSARY FOR FOR
YOU TO DO THAT FOR TONIGHT'S
MEETING BUT IT'S JUST IT'S A
HUGE PART OF HOW THESE THINGS
COME TO THE TABLE.
AND I KNOW THE STATE HAS ALSO
GRANTED MONEYS TO BRING THEM
HERE BUT GIVEN
THAT WE'RE NOT
GETTING THE OS, I RECOMMEND
OF ALL ELECTRIFICATION SOLAR
THEN REALLY WE'RE JUST WE'RE
DEFERRING THIS TAX BASE TO
ALLOW THEM TO BRING IN THIS
NATURAL GAS TO THIS DEVELOPMENT
UNTIL WE CAN CATCH UP WITH OUR
OBJECTIVES.
AND SO I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE
THAT THAT IS ALSO NOTED AS WE
CONTINUE TO TALK ABOUT THIS
DEVELOPMENT.
I CERTAINLY CONCUR THAT HAVING
PROJECT DETAILS TO GIVE A
ROUNDED CONTEXT IS HELPFUL.
I WILL HOWEVER NOTE THAT IN
ORDER TO APPROVE A PETITION
BEFORE THE BODY IT IS MOST
IMPORTANT THAT IT MEET THE
CRITERIA OF THE CITY CODE AND
THAT IS WHAT IS BEFORE YOU THIS
EVENING AND YES AND I'VE HAD
SOME OBJECTIONS WITH THE IMPACT
TO OUR HEALTH AND WELL-BEING
AND THAT PHRASE WHEN WE GO
ABOUT OUR APPROVAL.
BUT WE DON'T HAVE TO HAVE THAT
CONVERSATION AGAIN TONIGHT.
JUST TO BE CLEAR, THE
BROWNFIELD'S ARE ADDRESSING
YOU, SIR.
THANK YOU FOR THE BROWNFIELD
PLAN.
IS THERE NOTHING TO DO WITH
HARELI?
CAN YOU PLEASE INSTRUCT THE
PETITIONER NOT TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION?
I BELIEVE THAT COMMISSIONER
WOULD LIKE TO FINISH.
THANK YEAH.
SO I I APPRECIATE IT AND IT'S
JUST BUT I THINK IT'S A
TOTALITY I THINK WE ARE NOW AT
A POINT WHERE SCIENTISTS HAVE
SAID WE ARE CLEARLY GOING TO
HIT THE ONE POINT FIVE DEGREE
NUMBER AND IT'S WHETHER WE GET
TO ONE POINT SIX AND SO OUR
CLIMATE CRISIS IS REAL AND
THAT'S GOING TO AFFECT ALL
OF US.
IT'S GOING TO IN FACT THE THE
WATER WAYS IT'S GOING TO HIT
STORM WATER ALL OF THOSE THINGS
AS STORMS WE HAVE MORE ONE
HUNDRED FIVE HUNDRED AND
THOUSAND YEAR STORMS BUT WE
DON'T HAVE A MEANS TO SAY NO
BECAUSE THAT SORT OF PHRASE
ABOUT THE IMPACT THAT IT WOULD
HAVE ON THE THE WELL BEING
OF THE COMMUNITY ISN'T
ENFORCEABLE IN THIS IN THIS
WAY.
SO AT LEAST HAVING THIS
INFORMATION ABOUT HOW WE'RE
DEFERRING THE TAX REVENUE THAT
WE WOULD NEED TO FIGHT THE
CLIMATE CHANGE THAT THIS
POLLUTION IS GOING TO AFFECT
OUR COMMUNITY IS SOMETHING THAT
I THINK IS IMPORTANT FOR US TO
CONSIDER.
SO I'LL I'LL LEAVE IT THERE.
THANKS, CHARLIE.
THANK ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH.
SO I HAVE A QUESTION ABOUT THE
WHAT I SEE AS THE TOTAL FOR THE
BROWNFIELD WAS TWO POINT SEVEN
MILLION AND THERE IS A MILLION
GOING INTO THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING FUND BY VIRTUE OF THERE
BEING A BROWNFIELD AGREEMENT.
BUT I AM NOT CLEAR ON THAT.
AND SO I WAS HOPING THAT IF MR.
DELACOURT IS ANYWHERE WITHIN
THE RANGE OF MY VOICE HE WOULD
COME AND SPEAK TO US.
SO IT MAY BE A LITTLE LESS THAN
AT LEAST THE BROWNFIELD
AGREEMENT MAY BE LESS THAN WHAT
MR. GARBER MENTIONED.
THERE'S SIGNIFICANT CLEANUP
THAT HAPPENED ON THIS SITE FOR
PHASE ONE AND BUT NONETHELESS
WHAT WE HAVE IN FRONT OF US IS
PHASE TWO.
AND SO WHAT I WANTED TO ASK WAS
WOULD IT BE POSSIBLE TO SPECIFY
WHAT YOU NEED TO DO TO MEET
LEED GOLD BECAUSE I THINK THERE
MIGHT BE PEOPLE LISTENING FOR
WHOM THAT THAT'S NOT AN OBVIOUS
THOSE COMPONENTS ARE NOT
OBVIOUS AND IT MIGHT BE HELPFUL
TO HEAR THEM IF IT'S YOU KNOW
THAT THAT LEAD CONSULTANT WHICH
IS NOT IN THE ROOM WITH US
TONIGHT WOULD PROBABLY BE
BETTER IN EXPLAINING THAT OR
SOMEBODY THAT HAS MUCH MORE.
I'D LOVE TO BE ABLE TO TELL YOU
ALL THE DETAILS OF IT.
BUT YOU KNOW, IT'S OBVIOUSLY
AND IT'S IT'S RELATED TO ENERGY
EFFICIENCY OF THE BUILDING FOR
THE MOST PART WE WERE ACTUALLY
TRYING TO ATTAIN PLATINUM WHICH
IS THE HIGHEST STANDARD YOU CAN
GET BUT IT'S UNFORTUNATELY YOU
AND YOU CAN'T GET IT EVEN WITH
THIS TYPE OF A BUILDING YOU
CAN'T GET THERE.
SO WE WE ACTUALLY WENT TO THE
HIGHEST LEVEL EXCUSE ME OF THE
OF THE LEAD STATUS THAT WE
COULD OBTAIN FOR A BUILDING
OF THIS NATURE AND IT'S FOR
BOTH OF THE BUILDINGS RIGHT.
THIS ONE AND TWO YOU DON'T HAVE
IT ON BOTH AND YOU DON'T HAVE
IT ON EITHER BASE.
SO AND THEN I'M SURE THAT
THERE'S CONSTRUCTION AND
DEMOLITION A COMPONENT
OF CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION
IN THAT AS WELL THAT YOU'RE
STILL IN THE EXISTING FIRST
PHASE.
YEAH, THERE WAS A THERE WAS AN
EXISTING 50 60 YEAR OLD
BUILDING WE DEMOLISHED.
PHASE TWO IS GREENFIELD SITE.
OK, I CAN TELL YOU THE
BROWNFIELD THE WAY THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING THAT'S
THAT'S BY INTERNAL ANN ARBOR BY
VIRTUE OF THE WHICH THEY
CHANGED SEVERAL YEARS AGO.
YEAH.
THAT THAT ALLOWS THAT TO BE
SUBSIDIZED INTO AFFORDABLE
HOUSING UNDERSTANDING THAT'S
NOT AN EXTRA THING THAT YOU'RE
PUTTING IN BUT IT IS IN EFFECT
IT WAS THE BROWNFIELD AGREEMENT
THEY CAN ALLOCATE PART OF THE
BROWNFIELD TO THE TO THE
HOUSING INITIATIVE.
RIGHT, EXACTLY.
SO WE HAVE TO PUT THAT ON OUR
SIDE.
OK, SO I SO I FEEL AS THOUGH I
IF I'M MISREADING THE ROOM LET
ME KNOW FOLKS BUT I FEEL AS
THOUGH THERE'S JUST A LITTLE
BIT OF A QUESTION OF HOW WHAT
WE'RE SEEING ON THE SITE PLAN
CORRESPONDS TO THE LEED GOLD
CERTIFICATION AND SO THERE'S A
LITTLE YOU'RE NOT YOU'RE
FEELING LIKE THAT'S NOT TRUE.
LEED GOLD WOULDN'T WOULDN'T
APPEAR SOLID PLAN.
WELL IT'S MORE OF A BUILDING
STANDARD AND A SITE PLAN.
WELL, IF IT REQUIRES YOU TO
ACHIEVE A CERTAIN AMOUNT
OF ELECTRICAL OFFSET, WE WOULD
BE ABLE TO SEE THAT ON THE SITE
PLAN NO, NO.
SO THAT'S OK.
SO AGAIN, WE'RE IN A POSITION
WHERE WE KNOW YOU'LL DO IT AND
WE DON'T HAVE TO WORRY THAT WE
DON'T KNOW THE DETAILS.
THE AMOUNT OF INVESTMENT WENT
IN TO THE FIRST PHASE.
IT WOULD BE CRIMINAL FOR US TO
NOT CONTINUE TO BID TO OBTAIN
THAT LEGAL STATUS.
NO, I'M SURE YOUR OK SO I WISH
THAT THAT I AM ACTUALLY NO.
LET ME BRING THIS DIFFERENTLY.
IT IS TERRIFIC THAT YOU ARE
DOING AN INFILL PROJECT ON THIS
LAND AND YOU WERE INTENSIFYING
A USE.
YOU ARE GIVING US GREATER
EFFICIENCY OF LAND USE THROUGH
WHAT YOU WERE DOING THERE.
REALLY APPRECIATE THE WORK
YOU'RE DOING TO IMPROVE
CONNECTIVITY AND BICYCLES,
BICYCLE TRANSIT AND YOU KNOW
YOU'RE DOING A LOT ESPECIALLY
IN PHASE ONE.
WE SAW ALL THE WORK THAT YOU
WERE DOING TO MAKE THIS LESS
OF AN ISLAND AND ALL OF THAT IS
VERY MUCH APPRECIATED.
IT IS GREAT THAT SARTORIUS
GENERALLY HAS A COMMITMENT TO
CARBON NEUTRALITY BY TWENTY
FORTY FIVE BUT THERE IS A SENSE
OF URGENCY THAT TWENTY FORTY
FIVE IS A LITTLE BIT OF A LATE
TARGET AND SO I THINK THAT SOME
OF THE CONCERNS THAT YOU'RE
HEARING EXPRESSED ARE MERELY
GENUINE RESPONSES OUT OF THAT
SENSE OF URGENCY AND I THINK
THAT IT'S CLEAR THAT YOU'RE AN
ALLY IN OUR IN OUR CLIMATE
MITIGATION GOALS AND IT IS IT
IS ALSO CLEAR THAT THAT WE
DON'T HAVE ANY STANDARDS.
YOU KNOW, WE CAN WE CAN HAVE
THE FEEDBACK FROM OUR SIDE BUT
THAT'S NOT WRITTEN IN ANY
OF OUR BUILDING STANDARDS AND
SO I UNDERSTAND THAT.
BUT I WOULD REALLY HOPE THAT AS
YOU BUILD AS YOU GO, AS YOU
EXPECT, AS YOU FIGURE THINGS
OUT WITH THE SECOND BUILDING,
YOU WOULD SEEK THE MAXIMUM
EFFICIENCY FOR THAT BUILDING SO
THAT THE SOLAR YOU PUT ON THAT
ROOF OFFSETS AS SIGNIFICANT A
PORTION OF YOUR ENERGY AS
POSSIBLE.
AND I LOOK FORWARD TO AS THIS
PROJECT PROCEED HEARING MORE
DETAILS ABOUT HOW MUCH YOU CAN
OFFSET.
SO BUT THANK YOU FOR THE WORK
YOU'RE DOING AND THE OTHER
COMMISSIONERS.
I JUST WANTED TO STATE BRIEFLY
THAT I WAS ABLE TO LOCATE THE
PROCEEDINGS OF THE APPROVAL
OF THE BROWNFIELD PLAN IN MARCH
AND CIRCULATED THAT TO
COMMISSIONERS BY EMAIL.
IF YOU'D LIKE TO TAKE A LOOK.
THANK YOU, MR. MCLAWS.
AND THERE WAS A MOMENT WHERE
YOU DID WANT TO GIVE SOME
INFORMATION REGARDING THE
BROWNFIELD.
DID YOU WANT TO ADD ON TO THAT
AT ALL?
THERE'S NO OTHER THAN THAT IT
WAS IT WAS APPROVED IN PHASE
ONE WHEN WE DID DEMOLISH THE
THE EXISTING BUILDING THAT WAS
THERE.
THERE WAS BETWEEN IT WAS DEEMED
FUNCTIONALLY OBSOLESCENT BY THE
CITY ASSESSOR HERE AND ALSO
THERE WAS SOME ENVIRONMENTAL
CONTAMINATION THAT WAS
MITIGATED AT THAT POINT AS
WELL.
SO THAT WAS ALL RELATED TO
PHASE ONE.
BROWNFIELD WAS APPROVED AS PART
OF THAT PHASE ONE.
SO JUST WANTED TO BE CLEAR THAT
THE PHASE TWO IS GOING NO
BEARING ON THAT ON THAT AND
THAT BROWNFIELD THERE'S NO MORE
MITIGATION EFFORTS THAT NEED TO
TAKE PLACE ON THE SITE.
WE DID IT ALL WITHIN THE PHASE
ONE.
GOTCHA.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR THE
CLARIFICATION, MR. CHAIRMAN.
I JUST WANTED TO ALSO INTERJECT
THAT, YOU KNOW FROM THE
PLANNING STAFF'S PERSPECTIVE
THIS RECOMMENDATION OF APPROVAL
DOES MEET AT LEAST FOR THE
PLANNING AND ZONING CODE ALONG
WITH THE OTHER DEPARTMENTS
WHICH MAY CUBA AS THE FIRE
MARSHAL OR ENGINEERING OR OR
TRANSPORTATION, ET CETERA.
IT ALSO MEETS WITH THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
RECOMMENDATION THAT IT USES AT
THIS SITE.
SO THAT'S HOW WE DETERMINE AND
APPROVE A RECOMMENDATION.
I DO APPRECIATE YES.
I STILL HAS CONCERNS ON THIS
PROJECT.
THOSE STILL REMAIN.
THANK YOU
.
COUNCIL MEMBER DESH ARE INDEED
LOOKING AT THIS DOCUMENT.
IT IS IT LOOKS LIKE IT IS SIX
MILLION IN BROWNFIELD FUNDS AT
LEAST FROM THE DOCUMENT THAT
ALEX KELLY JUST SHARED WITH US.
THEY JUST TO SAY THAT I WAS NOT
WRECKED.
THANKS FOR THE CLARIFICATION.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS?
IF NOT, I WILL ADD MY TWO CENTS
WHICH IS SIMPLY THAT GIVEN THE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE STANDARDS MEANING SET BACK
AS WELL AS WASHTENAW COUNTY'S
WATER RESOURCE COMMISSIONER
STANDARDS, THE BANK FL FIRST
FLUSH REQUIREMENTS ARE MET FROM
THE PERMITTED USE STANDPOINT
OFFICE LABORATORY RESEARCH THE
USE FITS SO AS MUCH AS I KNOW
THAT CLIMATE CHANGE IS
OBVIOUSLY AN EMERGENCY WE DO
FACE AND WE APPRECIATE YOUR
COMMITMENT TO BEING NET ZERO
FULLY SUSTAINABLE BY TWENTY
FORTY FIVE WE URGE TO DO
EVERYTHING THAT YOU CAN BUT I
ALSO KNOW THAT YOU GUYS ARE
TAKING A SCIENTIFIC APPROACH TO
SAYING WHAT BENCHMARKS CAN WE
REASONABLY MEET SO WITH THAT I
BELIEVE THIS IS COMPLIANT WITH
ALL REQUIRED STANDARDS OF THE
UDC.
THAT'S REALLY WHAT WE CAN JUDGE
THIS MERIT BY SO WITH THAT, DO
WE HAVE ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS
THAT WOULD LIKE TO ADD ANY
OTHER COMMENTS?
ALL RIGHT.
REREADING THE PROPOSED MOTION,
THE ANN ARBOR CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION APPROVES THE
SARTORIALIST SITE PLAN LOCATED
AT THIRTY EIGHT SEVENTY FOUR
RESEARCH PARK DRIVE.
WE'LL BE DOING A VOICE VOTE
NEXT.
KELLY
.
YES, I'M SORRY, COMMISSIONER.
YES, COMMISSIONER ABRAMS YES.
COMMISSIONER WISCH.
YES.
SORRY YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH.
YES.
COMMISSIONER CLARK.
MR MILLS.
YES.
COMMISSIONER.
WHETHER IT BE YES THAT MOTION
CARRIES THANK YOU AND GOOD
LUCK.
THANK
.
ALL RIGHT.
WE ARE MOVING ON TO SECTION
TEN, A OTHER BUSINESS TAKE ONE
PLYMOUTH ROAD AREA REZONING.
I WILL INTRODUCE ACTUALLY AT
THIS POINT IN TIME I WILL BE
RECUSING MYSELF FROM THIS
PARTICULAR PETITION.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
AS MY EMPLOYER HAS SUBMITTED A
PETITION TO INCLUDE ONE
OF THEIR PROPERTIES TO THIS
ONE.
THANK WHAT I ALMOST YEAH YEAH.
ONE HE WAS LIKE I WANT TO ADD
IT OK WELL I AM THANK YOU
COMMISSIONER.
OK SO I UNDERNEATH THE PETITION
THIS IS A PRIMITIVE AREA
REZONING TO TAKE ONE TRANSIT
CORRIDOR DISTRICT AND TRANSIT
CORRIDOR STREET TYPE
DESIGNATION A CITY INITIATED
REZONING PETITION.
THIS IS A PETITION TO REZONE
FORTY FIVE PARCELS IN THREE
AREAS ALONG PLYMOUTH ROAD FROM
CURRENT ZONING DESIGNATION TO
THE DC ONE ZONING DESIGNATION
AND TO DESIGNATE THE
SETTLEMENTS OF PLYMOUTH
GREENBELT AND NIXON ROAD
PROPOSED TO BLOCK ONE ZONING
TRANSIT CORRIDOR STREET TYPE.
THE TOTAL AREA IS ONE HUNDRED
TWENTY SEVEN ACRES.
THE STAFF RECOMMENDATION IS
APPROVAL AND WE WILL HAVE A
PRESENTATION FROM PLANNER TO
LEO.
WELCOME.
THANK YOU.
WE HAVE PREPARED A STAFF REPORT
AND IN THE INTEREST OF TIME AND
EFFICIENCY ARE REALLY I WON'T
HIT ON IT ALL.
I'M HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS BUT THIS IS THE THIRD
REZONING THAT WE HAVE THAT WE
HAVE PROPOSED FOR THE SAME
PURPOSE TO REZONE AREAS OF THE
CITY TO TAKE ONE.
THE STAFF REPORT GOES OVER SOME
BACKGROUND INCLUDING THE WHEN
THE ITC ONE DISTRICT WAS
CREATED SOME OF ITS INTENSE
OBJECTIVES, ITS GOALS IT GOES
OVER SOME OF THE HISTORY OF OUR
ZONING MAP CHANGES IT DETAILS
THE PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT THAT WE
DID SPECIFIC TO THIS PROJECT
AND THEN IT GOES INTO THE
ACTUAL PROPOSED REZONING.
MY PRESENTATION HERE TONIGHT
WILL FOCUS ON TWO THINGS THAT
AREAS THAT ARE PROPOSED TO BE
REZONED AND SOME FACTS AND DATA
ABOUT THOSE AND THEN THE AREA
HEIGHT AND PLACEMENT STANDARD
AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
OF THE ONE DISTRICT ITSELF.
SO YOU GET AN IDEA OF WHAT THE
NEW RULES WOULD BE AND A LITTLE
BIT OF A COMPARISON TO
UNDERLYING ZONING DISTRICTS SO
THAT PROPOSED REZONING IS AS
MENTIONED.
FORTY FIVE PARCELS THAT
COVER ABOUT ONE HUNDRED AND
TWENTY SEVEN ACRES.
THERE ARE NINETY NINE UNIQUE
ADDRESSES IN THE REZONING AREA
AND THESE COME FROM FORTY TWO
INDIVIDUAL LOTS AND THREE
CONDOMINIUM WHICH HAVE AND THEN
BOTH SOME OF THE INDIVIDUAL TO
HAVE MULTIPLE ADDRESSES AS WELL
AS THE CONDOMINIUMS HAVE A LOT
OF INDIVIDUAL INDIVIDUAL OWNERS
.
WE I HAVE BROKEN DOWN THE AREA
INTO THREE SUB AREAS JUST FOR
DISCUSSION PURPOSES.
THEY ARE NOT CONNECTED.
WE HAVE AN EAST CENTRAL AND
WEST OR WEST CENTRAL DEPENDING
ON WHICH WAY YOU LIKE TO READ
THE PAGE.
THE EAST SUB AREA HAS NINETEEN
PARCEL'S ABOUT FIFTY THREE
ACRES.
IT INCLUDES TWENTY TWO THOUSAND
ONE COMMONWEALTH TWO THOUSAND
GREEN ROAD AND BETWEEN 30 TO
FIFTY AND THIRTY SIX FIFTY
PLYMOUTH ROAD MOSTLY ON THE
NORTH SIDE OF PLYMOUTH A LITTLE
BIT ON THE SOUTH SIDE
OF PLYMOUTH.
ALSO AS PART OF THIS WE WILL BE
DESIGNATING SOME STREETS
SPECIFICALLY PLYMOUTH AND GREEN
AS TRANSIT CORRIDOR STREETS
THEN THE T7 DISTRICT THE FRONT
SETBACKS ARE DIFFERENT
DEPENDING ON IF YOU ARE ON A
TRANSIT CORRIDOR OR IF YOU ARE
NOT I SHOULD SAY THIS IS A
PROPOSED SCHEME THAT IS GOING
BEFORE CITY COUNCIL FOR FIRST
READING ON MONDAY IF IT IS NOT
PASSED THEN THE REGULAR
STANDARDS FOR FRONT SET THAT
THERE WILL BE ONLY BE ONE SET
BACK STANDARD FOR GC ONE BUT
HAS SHOWN GREEN AND PLYMOUTH
ROAD WILL BE DESIGNATED AS
TRANSIT CORRIDOR STREETS AND
AGAIN AS I MENTIONED THE FRONT
SET BACK STANDARDS ARE
DIFFERENT DEPENDING ON IF YOU
WHAT FRONT LINE YOU ARE.
THIS IS A MAP OF THE UNDERLYING
ZONING DISTRICTS IN THE EAST
SUB AREA.
THEY INCLUDE O OFFICE TO PDE
ZONING DISTRICTS C ONE LOCAL
BUSINESS C ONE B COMMUNITY
CONVENIENCE CENTER C THREE
FRINGE COMMERCIAL AS WELL AS
ARI RESEARCH AND R FIVE HOTEL
THE CENTRAL AREA EXCUSE ME THE
CENTRAL AREA HAS SEVENTEEN
PARCELS COVERS ABOUT SIXTY
ACRES.
IT SPANS IT'S SORT OF CENTERED
AT THE PLYMOUTH ROAD MALL AND
THE TREVER SHOPPING CENTER IT
INCLUDES TWO THOUSAND TREVER
WOULD DRIVE AND TO TWENTY THREE
OR ONE TO THIRTY FIFTY FIVE
PLYMOUTH ROAD THE PROPOSED
TRANSIT CORRIDOR STREET
DESIGNATIONS IN THIS AREA ARE
PLYMOUTH AND NIXON AND THOSE
WOULD GET THE DESIGNATION
OF TRANSIT CORRIDORS.
THERE'S ALSO SOME FRONTAGE ON
HERE AND PARKWAY AND TREVER
WOULD THOSE DO NOT GET TRANSIT
CORRIDOR STREET FRONTAGES?
THE UNDERLYING ZONING IN THIS
SUB AREA INCLUDES ORELL WHICH
IS OFFICE RESEARCH LIGHT
INDUSTRIAL OFFICE AND C THREE
FRINGE COMMERCIAL IN THE WEST
SUB AREA THERE ARE NINE
PARCELS.
IT'S A LITTLE MORE THAN 13
ACRES.
IT INCLUDES EIGHTEEN TWELVE
UPLINE DRIVE SIXTEEN THIRTY
FIVE TO EIGHTEEN HUNDRED
PLYMOUTH ROAD AND THIS ONE
AGAIN INCLUDES A LOT ON THE
NORTH A LITTLE BIT ON THE SOUTH
SIDE OF PLYMOUTH.
THE PLYMOUTH ROAD IS THE ONLY
DESIGNATED TRANSIT CORRIDOR FOR
THIS SUB AREA.
UPLAND DOES NOT GET A TRANSIT
CORRIDOR DESIGNATION.
THE UNDERLYING ZONING IN THE
WEST SUBAREA INCLUDES ONE PUDI
C ONE LOCAL BUSINESS AGAIN C
ONE B COMMUNITY CONVENIENT
CENTER C THREE FRINGE
COMMERCIAL AND P PARKING.
I FEEL LIKE THIS IS A REPEATED
SLIDE MY GOING BACKWARDS MAYBE
.
YEAH FOR A ZONING DISTRICT
FLOOR AREA RATIO OR DENSITY AND
HEIGHT COMPARISON I GOT TO MOVE
A LITTLE WINDOW OR MAKE IT A
LITTLE BIT SMALLER.
THERE WE GO.
OVERALL I WOULD DESCRIBE THIS
AS THE TAXI ONE DISTRICT DOES
ALLOW A LOT MORE DENSITY THAN
THE UNDERLYING ZONING DISTRICTS
AS THE TOP ROW INDICATES THE C
ONE DISTRICT HAS ONE HUNDRED
PERCENT FOR A RATIO.
THAT MEANS THAT WHATEVER THE
SQUARE FEET OF THE SITE IS,
THAT'S THE SQUARE FEET OF THE
BUILDING, THE MOST TOTAL
BUILDING THAT YOU CAN HAVE NOW
THAT BUILDING BECAUSE
OF SETBACKS YOU CAN'T REALLY
BUILD LOT LINE TO LOT LINE TO
LOT LINE.
SO IF YOU WANT TO GENERALLY
BUILD EXACTLY EQUAL AMOUNT
BUILDING IS PROBABLY GOING TO
HAVE TO HAVE SOME PORTIONS
OF TWO STORIES OR MORE.
BUT THIS IS WHAT IT MEANS.
ONE HUNDRED PERCENT MEANS
WHATEVER A SQUARE FOOT OF THE
SITE IS THAT IS THE MAXIMUM
SQUARE FEET SQUARE FOOTAGE
OF THE BUILDING IN THE C ONE B
DISTRICT IT'S ONE HUNDRED AND
FIFTY PERCENT
C THREE IS TWO
HUNDRED PERCENT THE OFFICE
DISTRICT SEVENTY FIVE OVERALL
AND ARE ALSO SEVENTY FIVE THE
ARE FIVE HOTEL DISTRICT LITTLE
HARD TO COMPARE APPLES TO
ORANGES THERE'S NO MAXIMUM
BUILDING SIZE BUT YOU NEED AT
LEAST NINE HUNDRED SQUARE FEET
A LOT AREA PER HOTEL ROOM THE
PARKING DISTRICT HAS NO DENSITY
NO BUILDING SIZE RATIO AND
NEITHER DOES THE TAXI ONE
DISTRICT BUT ALL THE DISTRICTS
DO HAVE A HEIGHT LIMIT.
THE C ONE B HAS THE SHORTEST
THIRTY FIVE C C ONE B 50 AND C
THREE IS FIFTY FIVE THE O L AND
THREE I'LL HAVE MAXIMUM HEIGHT
OF FIFTY FIVE FEET OR NONE.
I'LL EXPLAIN THE MOMENT HOTEL
MOTEL HAS A EITHER FIFTY OR
EIGHTY FIFTY IS NORMAL EIGHTY
IS WHEN YOU PUT PARKING
UNDERNEATH THE BUILDING THE
DISTRICT REQUIRES AN EQUAL
HEIGHT LIMIT TO THE ADJACENT
ZONING DESIGNATION AND THE TSI
ONE ALSO HAS A VARIABLE HEIGHT
LIMIT BETWEEN STARTING AT FIFTY
FIVE WORKING YOUR WAY UP THREE
HUNDRED.
I'LL EXPLAIN IN A MINUTE FRONT
SET BACKS ARE PRETTY MUCH ARE
QUITE IN LINE.
MOST MINIMUMS ARE EITHER TEN OR
FIFTEEN FEET SOME ARE TWENTY
FIVE MOST MAXIMUM SET BACKS ARE
TWENTY FIVE.
THEY PUSH UP TO 40 OR 50 IN
SOME AREAS THE TAXI ONE
REQUIRES A MINIMUM OF EITHER
ZERO FEET OR 18 FEET BUT THE
EIGHTEEN IS MEASURED FROM THE
BACK OF THE CURB SO IT COULD BE
JUST A FEW FEET FROM THE
PROPERTY LINE AND THE MAXIMUM
IN THE TAXI ONE DISTRICT IS
EITHER FIFTEEN, TWENTY OR
TWENTY EIGHT DEPENDING AGAIN ON
IF YOU'RE ON THE TRANSIT
CORRIDOR OR NOT AND WHAT KIND
OF BUILDING IT IS.
SO YOU CAN SEE THAT THE MINIMUM
SET BACKS ARE IN LINE.
THE MAXIMUMS ARE A LITTLE BIT
LESS.
I SAID I WOULD GET TO THOSE
HEIGHT LIMIT THE ORELL AND R.E.
DISTRICT THE MAXIMUM HEIGHT IS
FIFTY FIVE FEET WHEN YOU'RE
WITHIN
THERE IS NO MAXIMUM
HEIGHT LIMIT.
I DO SAY US WITH A GRAIN
OF SALT BECAUSE IF YOU RECALL
WITH THE 75 PERCENT FLOOR AREA
RATIO YOU WOULD HAVE TO HAVE AN
EXCEPTIONALLY LARGE SITE TO
THEN HAVE ENOUGH SQUARE FOOTAGE
TO GO UP THAT HIGH.
IF YOUR BUILDINGS CAN ONLY GET
SO SMALL AND THEN THEY'RE
STRUCTURALLY LIKE A PENCIL AND
YOU CAN'T FIT ANYTHING ON EACH
FLOOR SO IT DOES HAVE QUITE A
HIGH HEIGHT LIMIT.
IT'S NONE THAT MAY BE A LITTLE
BIT UNREALISTIC.
YOU NEED A TREMENDOUS, ENORMOUS
SITE TO ACTUALLY GET SOMETHING
EXTREMELY TALL WITH THE SIZE
AND THE FLOOR AREA LIMITATION
THAT YOU SEE ONE HAS FOUR
RANGES WHEN YOU'RE BETWEEN ZERO
AND 80 FEET IT'S A MAXIMUM
OF 55.
SO WHEN YOU'RE PRETTY CLOSE TO
A RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT AND THEN
WHEN YOU'RE BETWEEN 80 AND 300
YOU ARE A MAXIMUM OF SEVENTY
FIVE FEET.
YOU'LL NOTICE THE SIMILARITIES
300 FEET IS A COMMON BOUNDARY
LINE LOWER HEIGHT FIFTY FIVE OR
SEVENTY FIVE FEET WHEN ARE
WITHIN 300 FEET OF RESIDENTIAL.
SO THAT'S A COMMONALITY THAT
WAS NOT A COINCIDENCE THAT THIS
ONE WAS MODELED AFTER SOME
OF THE BEST ELEMENTS OF OUR
CURRENT ZONING DISTRICTS.
IT'S WHEN YOU GET BEYOND 300
FEET IN THE O OR AL-NOURI
THEORETICALLY YOU CAN GO
UNLIMITED IN THE DC ONE
DISTRICT THERE'S TWO MORE
LEVELS ONE IS ONE HUNDRED AND
TWENTY FEET AND THEN EVEN
FURTHER WHEN YOU'RE A THOUSAND
FEET AWAY YOU COULD BE THREE
HUNDRED FEET TALL.
THERE'S A FRONT SET BACK NOTE
EXPLAINING WHAT I SAID IF THOSE
ARE PROPOSED SETBACKS I HAVE A
COLORFUL GRAPHIC IT IS A GRAPH
BUT IT'S ONE WAY TO VISUALLY
REPRESENT HOW THE HEIGHT IS
BROKEN DOWN IN THE ONE DISTRICT
COMPARED TO THE OTHER
DISTRICTS.
THE FIRST ROW IS PURPLE AND
THAT IS 30 FEET WHICH
REPRESENTS SINGLE FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL ALL THE SINGLE
FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
HAVE A 30 FOOT HEIGHT LIMIT IN
SOME OF THE MULTIFAMILY DO AS
WELL.
SO COMPARED TO THAT PURPLE LINE
ALL THE WAY HAVE A POINTER.
I WILL NOT STOP TO FIND OUT.
THE C1 DISTRICT ALLOWS A LITTLE
BIT MORE HEIGHT IF YOU REMEMBER
IT WAS THIRTY FIVE FEET A
LITTLE BIT MORE HEIGHT ALL
ACROSS EVERYWHERE IN THE C1
DISTRICT THE C1 B C THREE THE
BEGINNING PART OF O OR LRM ALL
OF THOSE THEY HAVE A FIFTY FIVE
FOOT HEIGHT LIMIT C ONE B AND C
THREE THE WHOLE DISTRICT NO
VARIABLE NO VARIATION JUST
THAT'S WHAT IT IS STRAIGHT BACK
IN THE OVERALL R E ONCE YOU GET
TO THAT THREE HUNDRED FOOT LINE
THEY GO UP THIS CHART SHOWS
THEM AT THREE HUNDRED FEET JUST
SO THEY DON'T RUN OFF THE PAGE.
BUT REMEMBER THE HEIGHT LIMIT
IS ACTUALLY THEM THE AR FIVE IT
HAS THE TWO THE TWO LIMITS BOTH
FIFTY FIVE FIFTY FEET AND 80
FEET.
PARKING IS EQUAL TO RESIDENT
ALTHOUGH THAT'S WHY IT'S ALL
PURPLE AND ALL THE SAME THEY'RE
IN THE TIER ONE DISTRICT.
THERE'S FOUR LEVELS.
THE FIRST TWO ARE WITHIN THE
THREE HUNDRED FEET SAME AS O
AND AURORAL VERY CLOSE IT'
FIFTY FIVE FEET A LITTLE BIT
FARTHER AWAY IT'S THE GREEN AT
SEVENTY FIVE FEET THEN WHEN YOU
GET TO THAT THREE HUNDRED FOOT
MARK INSTEAD OF JUST BEING NON
AS SOME OTHER DISTRICTS ARE
IT'S EITHER ONE HUNDRED AND
TWENTY FEET WHICH IS THE YELLOW
OR IT'S THREE HUNDRED FEET AND
THAT'S A TRUE THREE HUNDRED
FOOT WITH THE RED WE HAVE ON
OUR WEBSITE AND INTERACTIVE
ZONE AND INTERACTIVE MAPPING
TOOL AND WHEN YOU GO YOU'LL SEE
THIS I REALIZE THE BUFFERS ARE
COVERING WHAT'S UNDERNEATH AND
YOU CAN'T EVEN SEE THE ROADS
BUT BEAR WITH US.
IT'S BETTER THAN NOTHING.
THIS SHOWS THE EAST SUB AREA
AND THE THE PURPLE OUTLINE
OF THE PROPOSED ZONING THE
ORANGE WHICH YOU'LL ONLY SEE ON
THE FAR LEFT SIDE OF THE PAGE
THERE'S A LITTLE SWATH
OF ORANGE RIGHT THAT THAT SPOT
IS THE LIMIT OF FIFTY FIVE FEET
THEN THE BLUE AREA THAT AREA IS
BETWEEN EIGHT AND THREE HUNDRED
FEET OF RESIDENTIAL ZONING SO
AND THE BLUE AREA THAT HEIGHT
LIMIT IS SEVENTY FIVE FEET THE
THE YELLOW AREA MEANS THAT THEY
ARE MORE THAN THREE HUNDRED
FEET AWAY FROM RESIDENTIAL THAT
HEIGHT LIMIT IN THAT AREA IS
ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY FEET AND
THE CLEAR THAT'S OR YOU CAN
HAVE UP TO THREE HUNDRED FEET
IN HEIGHT IF YOU SO CHOOSE IN
THE CENTRAL SUB AREA THIS AREA
AGAIN THE PROPOSED BOUNDARY AS
OUTLINED IN PURPLE THE ORANGE
HAS A FIFTY FIVE FOOT HEIGHT
LIMIT.
THE BLUE HAS A SEVENTY FIVE
FOOT HEIGHT LIMIT, THE BULK
OF THE BULK IN THE MIDDLE IS
THE YELLOW AND THAT HAS ONE
HUNDRED AND TWENTY FOOT HEIGHT
LIMIT AND I BELIEVE TECHNICALLY
THERE IS A TINY TINY SPOT THAT
COULD HAVE A THREE HUNDRED FOOT
BUILDING.
I DON'T KNOW HOW YOU WOULD
ENGINEER THIS BUILDING BUT
THERE YOU AND THEN ON THE WEST
SUBAREA YOU CAN SEE HERE
THERE'S NO CLEAR THERE'S NO
SPOT IN THE WEST SUBAREA WHERE
YOU COULD HAVE UP TO THREE
HUNDRED FEET UP TO THREE
HUNDRED FOOT BUILDING.
YOU CAN ONLY HAVE FIFTY FIVE AS
SHOWN IN THE ORANGE AREA.
SEVENTY FIVE IN THE BLUE AREA
OR ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY FEET
MAXIMUM HEIGHT IN THE YELLOW
AREA.
THE T7 DISTRICT ALSO HAS SOME
ADDITIONAL DEVELOPMENT
STANDARDS THAT NONE OF THE
CURRENT ZONING DESIGNATION DOES
HAVE THE TO SEE.
ONE DISTRICT SAYS NO MORE THAN
TO CURB CUTS CURRENTLY CURB
CUTS ARE REGULATED BY HOW MANY
FEET OF FRONTAGE YOU HAVE, THE
MORE FEET OF FRONTAGE YOU HAVE
,THE MORE THE MORE CURB CUTS
YOU CAN HAVE.
IT'S JUST A SIMPLE FORMULA THAT
ONE DISTRICT SAYS DOESN'T
MATTER WHAT THE FORMULA SAYS
YOU HAVE TO CHOOSE.
ONE DISTRICT ALSO SAYS THAT
PARKING LOTS MUST BE BEHIND OR
NEXT TO BUILDINGS.
THEY MUST BE SURROUNDED BY THE
BUILDINGS.
I WILL MENTION THAT THIS IS A
CURRENT STANDARD ON THE BOOKS
FOR ALL DISTRICTS.
HOWEVER, EVERY OTHER DISTRICT
EXCEPT THE ONE SAYS IF YOU'RE
ON A CORNER LOT YOU ONLY NEED
TO BE BEHIND OR TO THE SIDE
OF ONE OF THE SIDES.
SO DEPENDS ON THE PERSPECTIVE.
JUST AN EXAMPLE SAY THE CORNER
OF MAIN HERE ON THE BUILDING
NEEDS TO GO AT THE CORNER
OF MAIN IN HERE ON BUT FROM THE
MAIN STREET SIDE THERE'S NO
PARKING.
THE PARKING IS IN THE BACK BUT
IF YOU APPROACH IT FROM THE
HERE ON SIDE THE PARKING MIGHT
BE ON THE SIDE.
THE TAXI ONE DISTRICT IT SAID
YOU HAVE TO HAVE SOME SORT OF L
SHAPED BUILDING OR SOMETHING.
YOU HAVE TO MAKE THAT PARKING
NOT THE DOMINANT FEATURE AND
HAS TO GO BEHIND YOUR TO THE
REAR THE TAXI ONE DISTRICT
LIMITS THE SURFACE AREA OF THE
PARKING LOT TO MEET EITHER THE
SAME AS OR JUST SLIGHTLY LARGER
THAN THE BUILDING FOOTPRINT.
IF YOU WANT ADDITIONAL SPACES
THEY'VE GOT TO BE IN PARKING
STRUCTURES OR UNDERNEATH THE
BUILDING AND PARKING GARAGE SO
FORTH CHEESY ONE DISTRICT SAYS
IF YOU HAVE A SITE THAT'S ABOUT
OVER ABOUT AN ACRE AND A HALF
YOU MUST DESIGN IT IN BLOCKS
YOUR BUILDING CAN ONLY BE SO
BIG AND YOU HAVE TO HAVE
MULTIPLE BUILDINGS CAN'T HAVE
ONE GIANT BUILDING AND IT SAYS
THE BUILDING FRONTAGE MUST BE
SEVENTY FOUR PERCENT OF THE LOT
WITH OR THE BLOCK WIDTH MEANING
YOUR BUILDING HAS TO BE WIDE
AND HAS TO GO ALONG THE
SIDEWALK SPANNING THE WHOLE LOT
AND THE FINAL SET OF ADDITIONAL
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS SORT
OF AS MENTIONED THE MAXIMUM
BUILDING SIZE IS 250 FEET WIDE
AND THREE HUNDRED SIXTY FEET ON
THE DIAGONAL.
IF YOU WANT A BIGGER BUILDING
THAN THAT, FINE YOU HAVE TO
PROPOSE TWO BUILDINGS.
THE BUILDINGS HAVE TO HAVE A
FUNCTIONAL ENTRANCE ON THE
SIDEWALK SIDEWALKS ON ALL SIDES
OF THE BUILDING DWELLING UNITS
ARE NOT PERMITTED WITHIN ONE
HUNDRED FEET OF A SIGNALIZED
INTERSECTION AND BUILDINGS
EXCEPT FOR TOWNHOUSES OR
APARTMENT BUILDINGS MUST MEET
THE DOWNTOWN BUILDING DESIGN
REQUIREMENTS FOR MINIMUM FIRST
STOREY HEIGHT WHICH IS FIFTEEN
FEET STREET LEVEL TRANSPARENCY
WHICH MEANS HOW MUCH OF YOUR
BUILDING HAS IS WINDOWS AND
THEN THERE ARE SOME RULES ABOUT
THE WINDOWS THEMSELVES.
THEN MY FINAL SLIDE ABOUT THE
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS THAT ONE
DISTRICT COMPARED TO OTHERS
PARKING IS NOT DONE BY PARKING
IS MOSTLY NOT DONE BY ZONING
DISTRICT.
IT'S DONE BY LAND USE AND
OF THE
DOZENS OF LAND USES IN
OUR TABLE SOME OF THEM HAVE
ALREADY HAVE A MAXIMUM PARKING
LIMIT AND THAT'S MOSTLY ONE
SPACE FOR THREE TWO HUNDRED AND
SIXTY FIVE OR TWO HUNDRED FIFTY
SQUARE FEET.
PHRASED ANOTHER WAY IT'S ABOUT
FOUR SPACES PER THOUSAND BUT
IT'S ABOUT ONCE IT IS ONE SPACE
FOR TWO SIXTY FIVE OR OR TWO
FIFTY AND NOTABLE LAND USES
THAT HAVE THAT MAXIMUM ARE YOUR
AVERAGE SIZE RETAIL OR GENERAL
OFFICES SOMETIMES FOR SOME
SPECIFICS THE FINANCIAL OR
MEDICAL OFFICES THEY HAVE A
MAXIMUM PARKING LIMIT OF ONE
SPACE PER ONE HUNDRED EIGHTY
SQUARE FEET.
THAT ONE DOESN'T BUY LAND USE.
IT HAS JUST A DISTRICT WIDE
MAXIMUM OF ONE SPACE OR THREE
HUNDRED AND THIRTY THREE SQUARE
FEET.
SO WHEN YOU COMPARE ATC ONE TO
MOST PARKING MAXIMUMS THEY DO
YOU'RE ALLOWED TO HAVE YOU'RE
REQUIRED TO HAVE TWENTY FIVE
PERCENT LESS THAN WHAT YOU
WOULD GET OTHERWISE.
BUT WHEN YOU COMPARE THAT TO
ONE DISTRICT TO BANKS OR
MEDICAL DENTAL OFFICES IT CAN
ACTUALLY BE FORTY PERCENT MORE
NOW THAT WOULD BE A DEVELOPMENT
THAT IS EXCLUSIVELY THAT TYPE
OF USE BUT THE TAXI ONE
DISTRICT RELIES ON A IT'S
PROXIMITY TO TRANSIT TO NOT TO
REDUCE THOSE MAXIMUMS AND B
REQUIRES ON MIX IT RELIES ON
MIXED USES AND MIXING TIME
MIXING TYPES OF USES, MIXING
TIME OF DAY REQUIREMENTS IF YOU
HAVE NONRESIDENTIAL AND
RESIDENTIAL SHARING THE SAME
PARKING LOT YOU CAN SHARE IT.
YOU CAN USE THOSE SPACES 24/7
BECAUSE THE OFFICES MIGHT BE
THERE DURING THE DAY APARTMENTS
MIGHT BE THEIR APARTMENT
PARKERS MIGHT BE THERE
OVERNIGHT AND THE TWO MAY NOT
MEET BUT THAT IS A HIGH LEVEL
OVERVIEW AS I I WILL SAY THAT
ALSO THE STAFF REPORT GOES
THROUGH SOME OF OUR ANALYSIS
OF THE BENEFITS AND PROS AND
CONS AS WELL OF THE ONE
DISTRICT.
THOSE INCLUDE HOW IT DOES
ACHIEVE MANY OF OUR
COMPREHENSIVE AND MANY OF OUR
VARIETY OF GOALS THAT ARE
ACROSS DOCUMENTS IN THE
TRANSPORTATION PLAN IN THE NON
MODERATES PLAN IN OUR PARKS
PLAN IN OUR MASTER PLAN IN OUR
LAND USE PLAN.
THE TAXI ONE ALSO IS AN
OPPORTUNITY TO UNIFY THE ZONING
ALONG CORRIDORS RIGHT NOW YOU
SAW IN THE ZONING MAP SO A LOT
OF DIFFERENT ZONING RULES.
IT'S A LOT TO KEEP TRACK OF FOR
RESIDENTS WHAT CAN WHAT IS
PERMITTED ON THIS PROPERTY AND
THEN WHAT IS PERMITTED RIGHT
NEXT DOOR.
IT'S A LOT TO KEEP TRACK OF FOR
DEVELOPERS THIS IS A MORE
UNIFIED APPROACH TO CORRIDOR
ZONING.
THERE ARE SOME THERE ARE SOME
CONS TO THIS THOUGH THERE'S
ALWAYS AND THOSE INCLUDE THE
MANY OF THE EXISTING STRUCTURES
WILL BECOME NONCONFORMING
BECAUSE OF THEIR SIZE IF
THEY'RE MORE THAN TWO HUNDRED
FIFTY FEET WIDE THAT'S TOO BIG
IN THE ONE DISTRICT OR MAYBE
FOUR FRONT TO BACK THEIR SET
BACK TOO FAR.
NOW WE THOSE ZONING DISTRICTS
ALREADY HAVE MAXIMUM SET BACK
SO THEY MIGHT ALREADY BE
NONCONFORMING FOR FRONT SET
BACK.
THIS WOULD JUST BE CHANGING THE
FLAVOR OF THE NONCONFORMITY AND
WE HAVE SEEN THAT REZONING
MIGHT SLOW THE PACE OF NEW
DEVELOPMENT.
WE HAVE THERE HAS BEEN NO NEW
OR INFILL DEVELOPMENT IN ANY
EXISTING ONE DISTRICT TO DATE
AND THEN I WILL WRAP UP BY
POINTING OUT AND AS YOU KNOW,
WE DON'T NORMALLY POINT OUT
INDIVIDUAL CORRESPONDENCE THAT
HAS BEEN RECEIVED FOR ANY
PARTICULAR TOPIC BUT WE HAVE
THREE PIECES OF CORRESPONDENCE,
ONE OF WHICH IS MENTIONED IN
THE STAFF REPORT AND WITHIN THE
PACKET, TWO OF WHICH CAME AFTER
THE PACKET WAS PUBLISHED AND
THOSE ARE NOT SO GENERAL.
THOSE ARE VERY SPECIFIC PIECES.
AND SO I'LL POINT THOSE OUT
THAT ONE OF THEM WAS FROM
OXFORD COMPANIES ASKING FOR TWO
LOTS TO BE INCLUDED IN THE
PROPOSED REZONING AND THEN THE
OTHER PIECES OF CORRESPONDENCE
ONE IS FROM FIRST MARTIN
CORPORATION THAT CAME ON MONDAY
,OCTOBER 30TH AND ANOTHER FROM
ORCHARD HILLS, MAPLEWOOD
HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION THAT
CAME OUT WHICH IS O H M H THAT
CAME TODAY ON NOVEMBER 1ST AND
THEY ARE ASKING FOR THREE
PIECES, THREE LOTS TO BE
EXCLUDED FROM THE THE PROPOSED
REZONING.
AGAIN, AS YOU KNOW, WE DON'T
NORMALLY MENTION THESE THINGS
BUT THIS IS VERY SPECIFIC NOT
IT'S NOT A GENERAL SUPPORT NOT
A NOT A GENERAL OPPOSITION BUT
THEY WERE ASKING FOR A CHANGE
ON THE STAFF IS RECOMMENDING
APPROVAL.
I KNOW I GLOSSED OVER SOME
OF THE BACKGROUND SO IT'S
ALWAYS HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY
BACKGROUND QUESTIONS.
SO HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY MORE
DETAILS.
THANK YOU.
I WILL NOW MOVE TO THE PUBLIC
HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THE
PROPOSED REZONING.
WELL, FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION, THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THIS PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PESTANA OF LISTENING BY PHONE
OR USE THE RAISED HAND FEATURE
VIEWING THROUGH THE WEB LINK
FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AND INTER MEETING
ADD NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX
THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS
THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND
USING THE LAST THREE DIGITS
OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME
IF AVAILABLE FOR THOSE
ACCESSING THROUGH THE WEB LINK
YOU'LL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA AND MUTE TELEVISION
BACKGROUND SOUNDS SO THAT WE
MAY HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR EITHER
METHOD OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS IS THERE
ANYONE PRESENT THAT WOULD LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THIS TIME?
YOU CAN APPROACH THE PODIUM.
THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M ELIZABETH GALIMA ADDRESS
THIRTY ONE THIRTY NINE PLYMOUTH
ROAD AND WHAT I WANTED TO TALK
ABOUT TWO THINGS.
ONE IS I'M IN THE SECTION
BETWEEN GEORGETOWN AND
COMMONWEALTH THERE ARE FIVE
HOMES THEY ARE ZONED
RESIDENTIAL.
THERE ARE FOUR OUT OF THE FIVE
THAT ARE NOW RENTALS.
WHAT IS ZONING?
MY OTHER CONCERN IS IN THE
NINETEEN NINETIES I SPOKE
BEFORE CITY COUNCIL ABOUT THE
NEED FOR A STREET LIGHT AT THE
END OF GEORGETOWN AND PLYMOUTH
ROAD FOR THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE
WHO HAD TO CROSS PLYMOUTH ROAD
TO GET TO THE BUS STOP AND THEY
SAID THERE WOULD NOT BE A LIGHT
PUT THERE BECAUSE COMMUTERS
WOULDN'T LIKE IT IN THE EARLY
2000S WHEN STEVE PANTALONE WAS
THE MAYOR, I CAME BACK TO CITY
COUNCIL AND REPORTED ON THE
NUMBER OF ACCIDENTS THAT OCCUR
AT THAT CORNER AND HOW
DANGEROUS IT IS WITH FIVE LANES
AND YOU'VE GOT A WHOLE
NEIGHBORHOOD TRYING TO GET OUT
OF THAT SECTION, HE SAID IT
WOULD BE PUT IN SOONER RATHER
THAN LATER AND CITY COUNCIL
AGREED WITH HIM.
IT IS NOT THERE YET.
IT IS TWENTY TWENTY THREE CITY
COUNCIL APPROVED A CROSSWALK.
IT IS NOT AT THE CORNER IT IS
DOWN THE STREET ON PLYMOUTH
ROAD.
THE PROBLEM IS IF YOU LIKE ME
OWN A MINIVAN YOU CAN'T FIT
YOUR CAR IN THAT TURN LANE PAST
THAT LITTLE GADGET THEY BUILT
IN THE MIDDLE OF THE ROAD TO
MAKE THAT LEFT HAND TURN
WITHOUT WORRYING ABOUT GETTING
HIT IN THE BEHIND A RIGHT
DRIVER'S REFUSED TO MAKE THAT
TURN.
THEY LIKE I DRIVE THE WRONG WAY
INTO THE ROAD.
IT'S A ONE WAY STREET AT THAT
POINT THERE NEEDS TO BE A LIGHT
AT GEORGETOWN AND PLYMOUTH ROAD
AND THEN I WOULD ALSO LIKE YOU
TO CHECK THE ZONING ON THOSE
HOMES.
THANK YOU.
IS ANYBODY ELSE PRESENT?
I WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION.
YOU CAN APPROACH THE PODIUM.
GOOD EVENING EVERYONE.
MY NAME ALI.
I'M THE OWNER OF TWENTY SEVEN
TWENTY SEVEN SIXTY FIVE
PLYMOUTH ROAD.
WE HAVE A BUSINESS THERE.
I OPENED IT UP IT'S CALLED
BRUCE DOWNTICKS I OPENED IT UP
FROM SCRATCH IN NOVEMBER TWENTY
NINETEEN RIGHT BEFORE COLVERT
SO SO NOW IT'S IT'S FOUR YEARS
AND MY BUSINESS IS FINALLY YOU
KNOW I'LL HAVE A REALLY GOOD
START FINALLY AND THEN UP AND
RUNNING SO I JUST READ ABOUT
REZONING ACTIVITY AND AVENUES
AND IT'S DRAW MY ATTENTION
BECAUSE ON THE ONE HAND I
UNDERSTAND THAT THESE COULD BE
A REALLY GREAT THING TO HAPPEN
TO ALLOW THE INCREASE OF THE
RESIDENTIAL DENSITY TO TO BE
CLOSE TO THE NORTH CAMPUS AREA
BECAUSE APPARENTLY NO, I'M
ACTUALLY ALSO A RESIDENT IN THE
LAKE AT THE NORTH CAMPUS AREA.
SO I UNDERSTAND HOUSING CAN BE
LIKE VERY, VERY TIGHT.
SO I DO UNDERSTAND THE NEED TO
INCREASE THE DENSITY OF THE THE
RESIDENTIAL HOUSING DENHA ON
THE OTHER HAND BY LOOKING AT
THE MAPS OF OH THIS IS THREE
THREE PARS ALONG THE ROAD AS A
TENANT NOT REALLY AS A PROPERTY
OWNER I JUST IT WASN'T CLEAR TO
ME AS FAR AS WAS WHAT THE
FUTURE DEVELOPMENT OF THESE
CORRIDORS OR THE ZONES OR
REZONING
ACTIVITY WILL IMPACT
MY BUSINESS BECAUSE EVEN THOUGH
I WASN'T I WASN'T THERE AT THE
NOVEMBER TWENTY SIX A PUBLIC
MEETING HELD AT THE TREVOR WOOD
LIBRARY.
I DID READ THE ARTICLE AND THEN
I, I, I BELIEVE THERE WAS
ANOTHER RESIDENT NAMED THE
DONORSHIP TO BRING UP SHE DID
BRING UP THE CONCERNS ABOUT
SOME SIMILAR REZONING AND
REDEVELOPMENT OF SOME DOWNTOWN
AREAS HAD ALREADY HAPPENED AND
THEN UNFORTUNATELY WHILE THE
RESIDENTIAL PARTS FILLED UP
LIKE THE REDEVELOPMENT THE HOPE
OF FOR BRINGING BACK THE
BUSINESS HAS NOT HAPPENED AND
I'M JUST AFRAID IF THAT'S GOING
TO HAPPEN WHAT'S GOING TO
REALLY NEGATIVELY IMPACT YOU
KNOW, SMALL BUSINESS LIKE MINE
AND THERE IS A LOT OF US IN
THESE THREE PARTS ALONG AND
THAT'S FROM A BUSINESS
PERSPECTIVE AND ALSO AS I AS I
MENTIONED, I'M ALSO A RESIDENT
LIVING VERY CLOSE TO THE NORTH
CAMPUS ABOUT FIVE SECONDS LEFT.
OK, YES.
SO THEN I'M ALSO INTERESTED TO
KNOW LIKE ARE THERE ANY PLANS
FOR LIKE THE INFRASTRUCTURE FOR
EXAMPLE, THE SCHOOLS, ALL THESE
OTHER THINGS THAT HAVE TO COME
ALONG TO REALLY SUPPORT THE
INCREASED RESIDENTIAL DENSITY
THERE.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYBODY ELSE PRESENT
WHO WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION
IF COMMISSIONER
RAYBANS?
OF COURSE I HAVE TO HAVE MY SAY
KEN GARBER AGAIN.
FIRST OF ALL, I WANT TO SAY I
APPRECIATE ALL MR LEO'S WORK ON
THIS ZONING DISTRICT IN
PLYMOUTH ROTARY IN PARTICULAR
AND FOR HER CAREER EXPLANATIONS
OF THE IMPLICATIONS I SUPPORT
ONE ZONING FOR PLYMOUTH ROAD,
THE INCREASED DENSITY ALONG THE
TRANSIT CORRIDOR, THE SET BACK
AND ESPECIALLY THE PARKING
RESTRICTIONS.
I THINK ARE REALLY GREAT
PRIVATE IDIOSYNCRATIC KIND
OF COMMENT ABOUT THE DISTRICT,
ABOUT ABOUT ONE IN GENERAL.
AS YOU KNOW BY NOW I VIEW
EVERYTHING IN THE WORLD IN
TERMS OF GREENHOUSE GAS
EMISSIONS.
IT'S A DEPRESSING WAY TO LIVE
BUT I CAN'T HELP MYSELF.
LET ME WALK YOU THROUGH A
THOUGHT EXPERIMENT.
LET'S ASSUME THAT WE'RE TAKING
ONE ZONING.
WE CONVERT A CURRENT COMMUTER
TO AN ANN ARBOR RESIDENT AND
THAT'S WHAT WE WANT RIGHT.
FURTHER ASSUME THAT THIS PERSON
GIVES UP THEIR CAR COMPLETELY
AND WALKS BIKES EVERYWHERE ZERO
DRIVING EVEN FOR VACATION.
LET'S EVEN ASSUME NO TRANSIT
EMISSIONS AT THE AVERAGE ANNUAL
MACHINE VEHICLE MILEAGE
OF FOURTEEN THOUSAND THREE
HUNDRED MILES A YEAR DRIVING WE
WILL PREVENT FIVE POINT FOUR
METRIC TON CO2 EQUIVALENT
EMISSIONS ANNUALLY FROM THIS
PERSON DRIVING THEIR VEHICLE.
GREAT OUTCOME, RIGHT?
YES, BUT LET'S ASSUME THAT THIS
PERSON WILL LIVE IN A NEW ONE
THOUSAND ONE HUNDRED FIFTY
SQUARE FOOT APARTMENT OR CONDO
HEATED WITH NATURAL GAS
CONSUMERS.
ENERGY CITES THIS FIGURE FIFTY
TWO POINT NINE KILOBITS PER
SQUARE FOOT FOR GAS CONSUMPTION
IN NEW MID-MICHIGAN.
LOW RISE MULTIFAMILY BUILDINGS
FOR OUR HYPOTHETICAL APARTMENT
OR CONDO THAT COMES TO SEVEN
POINT NINE METRIC TON CO2
EQUIVALENT EMISSIONS A YEAR
FROM GAS COMBUSTION ALONE.
THAT'S TWO POINT FIVE TONS MORE
THAN FIVE POINT FOUR TONS WE
SAVE BY ELIMINATING A MOTOR
VEHICLE.
SO EVEN IN THE BEST CASE
SCENARIO WE HAVE DONE NOTHING
FOR THE CLIMATE SINCE THAT
PERSON'S FORMER RESIDENCE MUST
STILL BE EMITTING CO2.
IN FACT WE'RE ADDING TO
EMISSIONS A LOT.
THAT'S WHY TO MAKE A POSITIVE
CLIMATE IMPACT WE HAVE TO
COUPLE ONE WITH BUILDING
ELECTRIFICATION AND NET ZERO
ENERGY NEW CONSTRUCTION TAKE
ONE AND HIGHER DENSITY BY
THEMSELVES ARE GREAT BUT THEY
DIG US DEEPER INTO A HOLE WHEN
IT COMES TO EMISSIONS.
WE CAN'T JUST BUILD OUR WAY OUT
OF THE CLIMATE CRISIS.
IN SHORT, ONE CAN HELP IF IT'S
PART OF A COMPREHENSIVE
SOLUTION.
UNFORTUNATELY I SEE NO SUCH
SOLUTION ON THE TABLE.
SO TONIGHT I SUPPORT A YES VOTE
AND TAKE ONE BY I THINK THERE
HAS TO BE A RECOGNITION THAT
THIS IS A VERY, VERY PARTIAL
SOLUTION TO ANY KIND OF CLIMATE
CHANGE MITIGATION
.
I WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION.
YES, MY NAME IS OFFICE GLYMOUR
AND I LIVE AT THIRTY ONE THIRTY
NINE PLYMOUTH ROAD AND HAVE
LISTENED TO THE PRESENTATIONS
TONIGHT IN TERMS OF THE
REZONING OF YOUR PLYMOUTH ROAD
AREA.
THE ONE CONCERN THAT I HAVE IS
WHAT HAPPENS TO THOSE FIVE
HOUSES IS LOCATED ALONG
PLYMOUTH ROAD ACROSS FROM THE
WATER TOWER.
IF YOU'RE FAMILIAR WITH THAT
AREA BECAUSE I'M NOT I'M NOT
QUITE SURE CLEAR IN TERMS
OF WHAT IS BEING PROPOSED FOR
THAT PARTICULAR AREA WITH
REZONING REQUEST THAT YOU MAKE
IT SO IS THERE SOME WAY THAT I
CAN GET SOME CLARIFICATION ON
THAT?
I WOULD APPRECIATE.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYBODY ELSE PRESENT
WHO WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION?
OK, NEXT COUNTY IS THERE
ANYBODY ONLINE THERE?
ARE THERE FIVE HANDS RAISED
RIGHT NOW?
THE FIRST CALLER IS PHONE
NUMBER ENDING IN THREE FOUR
EIGHT.
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO ADDRESS
THE COMMISSION FOR THREE
MINUTES
OR SO ASSOCIATION AND
AND THIRTY THREE FOUR TO SEVEN
ON REPORT.
OH THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR
CONSIDERING REMOVING THE THREE
PROPERTIES THAT WERE MENTIONED
EARLIER.
I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO MAKE YOU
AWARE THAT ALL OPTIONS FROM
TWENTY ONE TWO ZERO ZERO ONE
ALL THE WAY UP TO MICHIGAN WITH
ONE ARE RESTRICTED FROM BEING
RESOLD PC ONE THREE ZERO ZERO
ALSO I BELIEVE IS RESTRICTED IN
CAMPUS SITES AND THERE ARE TWO
OTHERS UNGREEN THAT ARE BEING
ADDED TWENTY FIVE HUNDRED TO
THE MINUTE AND THE PROPOSED ON
HAMBLING USE RESTRICTIONS
INCONSISTENT WITH ONE INCLUDING
HEIGHT AND FOOTPRINT.
I ALSO CONSIDER THE PD ARTICLE
ALSO RESTRICTED ALSO ANY
ADDITIONAL FERGUSON PETITION TO
BE INCLUDED WOULD RESET THE
PROCESS FOR DUE PROCESS
NOTIFICATIONS SHOULD GO TO ALL
PERSONS WITH PROPERTY INTERESTS
INSTEAD OF JUST THE ONES LISTED
ON THE PROPERTY OWNERS.
SO PLEASE MAKE SURE EVERYONE IS
INCLUDED IN WHY DIDN'T YOU
MENTION REZONING YOU USE A
CHEEKY ONE.
IT'S A SETBACK FOR POINT C
PLANNING TO SEEK SORRY IT'S A
SETBACK FOR CITY PLANNING
BECAUSE THE STATE LAW ALREADY
GIVES PLANNING A GREAT DEAL
OF INFLUENCE ON THE DESIGN
OF LAND USE AMPUTEE'S FOR URBAN
PLANNING INCLUDING FROM HOUSING
.
BUT THE FLEXIBILITY IS
PERMITTED NCC ONE OF THE ARE
RESTRICTED TO ESTATE PLANS
REZONING REAL ESTATE PLANS AND
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS AND ANY
CONDOMINIUM PROJECTS HAS BEEN
TRANSFERRED THREE TIMES IN THE
PAST.
SHE DIDN'T WITHDRAW RESULTING
FROM KUDI PROPOSED TO THE KION
GREEN.
WELL I SUPPORT URBAN PLANNING
AND MORE HOUSING IN ROUGHLY
APPROPRIATE LOCATIONS.
PLEASE CONSIDER DROPPING THESE
PROPERTY FOR TABLE TO BE SURE
THEY'RE ALL FULLY COMPLIANT TO
STATE PROPERTY OF THE MICHIGAN
ZONING ENABLING EXERCISE
PRIVATE PROPERTY OWNERS INDEED
RESTRICTIONS ON LAND USE AND
ZONING DOES MICHIGAN COURTS
CUFI BY ABIDE BY THEM.
PLEASE ALSO CONSIDER JAMLING
PROPERTIES WITH FRONTAGE
UNGREEN WITHOUT DIRECT ACCESS
TO PERMIT ROAD INCONSISTENCY.
ONE ISN'T A QUARTER THE AREA
NOR THE POST OFFICE IS
EXCLUSIVE DENSITY MULTIFAMILY
AND PUDI HOUSING PARKSON THE
RESIDENT CENTRAL AREA IS VERY
RESTRICTED AND INCONSISTENT
WITH U.S. ONE UNLIKE METRO AND
OTHER ONE THAT MAY NOT CLASSIFY
AND DOESN'T PERMIT COMMERCIAL
TRANSIT OR I DON'T KNOW WHAT MY
TOMORROW MORNING BUT I I HOPE
THAT OUT OF TIME.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT CALLER IS LVY.
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO ADDRESS
PLANA QUESTION FOR THREE
MINUTES QUICK.
HELLO.
HI MY NAME IS HI.
MY NAME IS LIBBY BENTON.
I LIVE TWO THREE FIVE NINE
PRARIE STREET AND I AM CALLING
TO SUPPORT THE DC ONE REZONING
.
THIS WOULD REZONE PROPERTIES
THAT ARE JUST AT THE END OF OUR
STREET AND I STRONGLY SUPPORT
IT.
OUR NEIGHBORHOOD MOVE TO THE
NEIGHBORHOOD BECAUSE IT IS SUCH
A NICE WALKABLE COMMUNITY
YOU
CAN GET TO SCHOOLS NICE ON DAY
CARE GROCERY STORES, RITE AID
RESTAURANTS, BARS IT'S REALLY
VIBRANT.
IT'S REALLY A LOVELY PLACE AND
WE'D REALLY LIKE TO SEE THE
NEIGHBORHOOD MOVE IN THE
DIRECTION OF BEING MORE
WALKABLE AND MORE TRANSIT
ORIENTED AND HAVING MORE
DEVELOPMENT AND THAT AND MORE
HOUSING AND THAT KIND POINT IS
REALLY WHAT'S MOST IMPORTANT TO
ME BECAUSE IT'S A NEIGHBORHOOD
THAT HAS A LOT OF SENSE
OF COMMUNITY AND A LOT
OF OPPORTUNITIES AND I REALLY
WANT MORE FAMILIES OF ALL
INCOME LEVELS TO BE ABLE TO
LIVE IN A NEIGHBORHOOD LIKE
THIS ONE.
OUR NEXT DOOR NEIGHBOR WHO IS
ONE OF THE ORIGINAL OWNERS IN
THIS SUBDIVISION SHARED WITH ME
THAT WHEN THE DEVELOPMENT WAS
BUILT THOUGH THERE ARE NO
RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS THAT THE
DEVELOPER HAD A POLICY
OF SELLING TO AFRICAN-AMERICANS
.
AND SO I KNOW THAT THIS
REZONING CAN'T WRITE DOWN AND
IS IN NO WAY BUT I DO THINK
THAT WE NEED TO BE COGNIZANT
OF THE WAY THAT THESE
NEIGHBORHOODS WERE WHAT THEY
CURRENTLY ARE VERY EXCLUSIVE
AND IT'S NOT DISTANT HISTORY.
IT'S NOT THEORETICAL.
YOU KNOW, MANY OF THOSE
FAMILIES THAT WERE ABLE TO
PURCHASE HOMES ARE STILL LIVING
HERE AND ARE STILL GOT TO LIVE
IN THESE HOUSES FOR 60 YEARS
AND ARE SELLING THEM NOW AND
MAKING FOUR HUNDRED FIVE
HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS.
SO I JUST THINK THAT THAT IS AN
ASPECT TO THINK ABOUT TOO IN
SUPPORTING US AND MAKING OUR
NEIGHBORHOODS IN AN URBAN MORE
OPEN.
SO THANK YOU AND PLEASE VOTE
YES.
THANK YOU
.
OUR NEXT CALLER IS ADAM
GOODMAN.
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO ADDRESS
THE COMMISSION LIKE THAT?
MY NAME IS ADAM GOODMAN AND RUN
FOR HUNDRED VIRGINIA AVENUE
WHICH IS ON THE WEST SIDE OF IN
OUR ARKANSAS NOT PARTICULARLY
CLOSE TO PLYMOUTH ROAD BUT I AM
CLOSE TO A STADIUM WHICH IS ONE
OF THE CORRIDORS THAT HAS
ALREADY RESERVED ONE.
AND YOU KNOW, I'M HERE TO SAY A
FEW THINGS BUT FIRST OF ALL THE
SKY HAS FELLOW STADIUM LOOKS
MUCH AS BEFORE.
SO AS MR. LEO POINTED WITNESS
MAYBE IF ANYTHING HAD THE
EFFECT OF SLOWING WHICH YOU
KNOW, THAT'S THAT'S NOT WHAT I
THINK A LOT OF ULTIMATELY WANT
TO SEE.
HOWEVER, I THINK IN THE NEAR
TERM AT LEAST IT'S OK BECAUSE
FOR ME TO SEE ONE IS AS MUCH
ABOUT WHAT IT PROVIDES AS WHAT
IT ALLOWS BUT IT PREVENTS IT IS
THE SORT OF CYCLE OF CAR SPRAWL
DEVELOPMENT THAT WE'VE LOCKED
OURSELVES INTO FOR THE LAST YOU
KNOW, AT LEAST 50 YEARS,
PROBABLY MORE LIKE 70 YEARS.
WHAT WAS GETTING PROPOSED TO
ONE LAST STADIUM BEFORE WAS
THINGS LIKE DRIVE THROUGH BANKS
JUST ONE AFTER ANOTHER DRIVE.
IN FACT THAT'S ONE REASON IT
DIDN'T HAPPEN SOON ENOUGH THERE
IS ANOTHER YET ANOTHER DRIVE
BANK UNDER CONSTRUCTION RIGHT
NOW.
HOWEVER, THERE WAS ONE IT WAS
STOPPED THAT IS ON TWENTY SIXTY
WEST STADIUM BATSIUA PREVIOUSLY
BEEN CONSIDERED FOR DRIVE THRU
BANKS AND SELF-STORAGE
FACILITIES THINGS THAT OUR
COMMUNITY ON THE SIDE OF TOWN
CLEARLY DID NOT WANT.
WHAT HAS BEEN MOST RECENTLY
PROPOSED ON THAT IS AFFORDABLE
HOUSING AND I DON'T KNOW THAT
PROPOSAL IS ACTUALLY GOING TO
GET ALL THE WAY THROUGH GET
BUILT.
BUT JUST THE FACT THAT THIS IS
THE CONVERSATION WE'RE HAVING
NOW INSTEAD OF A DRIVE THRU
BANK FEELS LIKE REAL
SUBSTANTIAL PROGRESS.
AND SO I WANT TO SEE ALL OF THE
CORREDOR IMPLEMENT THAT
WASHTENAW RESUME'S YOU KNOW, AS
THEY CAN BE.
AND IF ANYTHING, MY ONLY
COMPLAINT ABOUT THIS WHOLE
PROCESS HAS BEEN THAT IT'S
TAKEN SO LONG TO GET TO WHERE
WE ARE NOW AND WE'RE STILL NOT
DONE.
SO I HOPE YOU WILL ADVANCE THIS
REZONING TONIGHT WITHOUT DELAY
.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT CALLER IS PHONE NUMBER
ENDING AND SIX SEVEN FIVE
YOU'VE PERMISSION TO ADDRESS
THE COMMISSION
PHONE NUMBER
ENDING IN SIX SEVEN FIVE.
ARE YOU WITH US
?
PERHAPS WE CAN CIRCLE BACK TO
THIS CALLER AT THE END OF THE
QUEUE.
KIRK WESTFALL, YOU'VE
PERMISSION TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION FOR THREE MINUTES
.
THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING.
KIRK WESTFALL THIRTY FIVE FIVE
CHARTER PLANES APPROXIMATELY
ONE MILE FROM THE NEAREST
PROPOSED DC ONE REZONING JUST
CALLING TO VOICE MY STRONG
SUPPORT FOR THE CITY INITIATED
REZONING AS SOON AS POSSIBLE AS
ARTICULATED BY A PRIOR CALLER
PARTICULARLY IN FAVOR IN THAT
ONCE SUPPLY TO HE WILL STOP THE
CORRIDOR FROM RETRENCHING
FURTHER INTO SUBURBAN USES AND
AUTO DOMINATE DEVELOPMENT AND
IT WILL ALSO ENSURE ANY FUTURE
DEVELOPMENT WHENEVER THAT COMES
WITH MEANINGFUL MEET OUR
SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY
TRANSIT WALKABILITY AND MIXED
USE GOALS.
MY ONLY REGRET ABOUT THIS ITEM
OTHER THAN IT HASN'T HAPPENED
SOONER IS THAT IT'S NOT BEING
APPLIED MORE BROADLY.
FOR EXAMPLE, JUST LOOKING AT
THE WESTERN PART OF IT I'M
CURIOUS WHY THE U-HAUL I THINK
SITE WASN'T INCLUDED OR FOR
THAT MATTER WHY DID YOU GO ALL
THE WAY DOWN TO LOWERTOWN?
I AM HAPPY THAT THE GREENPORT
FOLKS ARE LOOKING TO ASK FOR
ONE CONCLUSION.
I HIGHLY RECOMMEND THAT ONCE
THE ZONING IS APPLIED AND GOES
THROUGH THE PROCESS I THINK
THAT WOULD BE A GREAT ADDITION.
THAT PART OF GREEN ROAD IS A
VERY FREQUENT TRANSIT CORRIDOR
NOT JUST TO STAY WITH THAT PARK
AND RIDE THERE AND N WORD BUT
ALSO ALL THE BLUE BUSSES THAT
GO THROUGH THAT PART OF TOWN.
I MEAN I WOULD STRUGGLE TO
THINK OF WHAT COMMERCIAL
PROPERTIES IN THE CITY THAT WE
ACTUALLY WOULDN'T WANT TO SEE
ONE GIVEN HOW IT TAPERS TO
RESIDENTIAL EVEN SHORTER THAN
THE FIFTY FIVE FEET ONCE YOU
GET CLOSER TO RESIDENTIAL AS
OUTLINED IN THE ORDINANCE AND
LASTLY I JUST ASK YOU PLEASE
NOT TO POSTPONE THIS ITEM
BECAUSE OF LEGAL MATTERS
BETWEEN PRIVATE PARTIES SHOULD
BE IMPACT THE CITY'S PACE
OF BUSINESS AND CAN BE DEALT
WITH BETWEEN THOSE PARTIES AT A
LATER DATE.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION AND I SUPPORT
THANK THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT CALLER IS MICHELLE
HUGHES.
YOU PERMISSION TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION?
HI, I'M ALSO IN SUPPORT OF THIS
IN SUPPORT OF ANYTHING THAT
GETS PEOPLE WALKING AND BIKING
AND STUFF LIKE NOT NEEDING A
CAR IS BASICALLY THE REASON
THAT I'VE LIVED IN ANN ARBOR
FOR TWENTY YEARS.
I I WAS GOING TO COLLEGE IN
1988 AND I GREW UP IN IN THE
EAST LANSING AREA SO I WAS
FAMILIAR WITH THE MICHIGAN
STATE CAMPUS.
BUT THEN WHEN I CAME TO U OF M
I REALLY LIKED HOW IT WAS A
SPRAWLING AND YOU COULD GO FROM
PLACES TO LIVE TO PLACES TO DO
BUSINESS, PLACES TO GO TO
SCHOOL AND I WANT MORE PEOPLE
TO HAVE THAT EXPERIENCE SO WE
SHOULD WE SHOULD DO THIS.
I AND I'VE HEARD IT SAID BEFORE
LIKE THE REASON THAT THE REASON
THAT A LOT OF PEOPLE HAVE THE
REASON THAT A LOT OF PEOPLE
HAVE SUCH FOND MEMORIES
OF THEIR COLLEGE YEARS IS
BECAUSE THAT'S THE ONLY TIME
THEY SPENT LIVING IN A WALKABLE
COMMUNITY.
WE SHOULD LET PEOPLE LIVE IN A
WALKABLE COMMUNITY ALL THE TIME
,NOT JUST WHEN THEY'RE COLLEGE
STUDENTS.
SO YEAH, TAKE ONE THIS LET'S DO
OH ALSO I'VE GOT ANOTHER STORY.
I'VE GOT A GIRLFRIEND THAT
LIVES UP IN THAT AREA AND GREEN
ROAD AND SHE LIVES AND SHE HAS
NO CAR AND SHE LIVES IN AN
APARTMENT BUILDING AND I THINK
A LOT OF THE PEOPLE IN THAT
APARTMENT BUILDING HAVE HAD
CARS THE BIKE RACK IS ALWAYS
JUST JAM PACKED FULL AND
THERE'S ALWAYS TONS PARKING
THERE THAT IS JAM PACKED EMPTY
AND SO YEAH, I'D LIKE TO SEE
MORE PEOPLE MORE AND MORE
HOUSING FOR PEOPLE, LESS
HOUSING FOR CARS BECAUSE THAT'S
WHAT PEOPLE ACTUALLY WANT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
AND WE ARE BACK WITH HER ENDING
IN SIX SEVEN FIVE YOU CAN START
SIX TO UNMUTED YOURSELF
.
YOU DO HAVE PERMISSION TO SPEAK
IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO TRY
ADDRESSING THE COMMISSION.
I'M JUST CONFIRMING THAT THE
COLOR IS UNMUTED SHOULD HAVE
PERMISSION TO SPEAK CAN SORRY
TECHNICAL BUT WHY ARE YOU
HEARING ME NOW?
YEAH WE CAN HEAR YOU.
SORRY I'VE DONE IT TWICE BUT
BRADBROOK CALLING THIRTY THIRTY
LEXINGTON I LIVE ABOUT A MILE
AN HOUR NORTH OF PLYMOUTH ROCK
MCTEAR MODEM FIRST LET ME
COMMEND ALL THE PLANNING STAFF
FROM EVERYTHING I'VE SEEN DELIO
AND OTHERS ARE DOING VERY VERY
THOROUGH WORK AND I CAN'T STAND
UP AND THINK ABOUT THAT SO I
APPRECIATE THAT ALL OF IT THAT
I REALLY WANT TO LIKE TO SEE
ONE I REALLY DO.
WE NEED MORE AFFORDABILITY.
WE NEED SUSTAINABILITY AGAIN
THEY CAN HELP US GET THERE BUT
THERE'S SOME DEVIL'S IN THE
DETAILS AND I HAVE THREE I'D
LIKE TO TOUCH ON TOO.
I'VE ALREADY MENTIONED IN A
WRITTEN CORRESPONDENCE SO I
WON'T BELABOR THE FIRST.
THERE'S A LOT OF MOVING PARTS
TO MAKE THIS THING WORK AND
PARTICULARLY PARAMJIT.
WELL IF TRANSITIVITY LET'S GET
THE TRANSIT PEOPLE INVOLVED AND
WE WON'T GET RID OF ALL
TRANSPORTATION.
SO I BELIEVE IN OUR SYSTEM WE
NEED THE ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT
INVOLVED SUSTAINABILITY
UMBILICALS ZONING CAN ADDRESS
ANY OF THOSE BUT WE HAVE A
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
LET'S DO THAT.
WHY THE RUSH INTERVENTION?
NO PROJECT ON STADIUM HAVEN'T
DONE YET TO MY KNOWLEDGE NOT
NEAR THE BROWN AREA.
LET'S TAKE OUR TIME ON SECOND
POINT.
I ATTENDED A MEETING A FEW
WEEKS AGO AT THE LIBRARY.
THERE'S A MENTION THAT REPORT
THAT SUMMARY IS INCLUDED IN THE
ATTACHMENT.
I DIDN'T SEE THAT.
I HOPE THAT OTHERS DID I ADMIRE
ABOUT INNOVATION WITH ABOUT
THREE TO ONE OPPOSING THIS.
NO, PLEASE PAY ATTENTION TO A
THIRD IS A PERSONAL POINT.
MY WIFE AND I BOTH HAVE REDUCED
MOBILITY.
WE'RE STILL ABLE TO GET AROUND
BUT WE'RE NOT GOING TO RIDE
BIKES EVER.
SADLY THAT'S DONE AND 15 MINUTE
WALKS ARE NOT REALLY REALISTIC
EITHER.
THEY'LL BE ONE AND CARROT
STICKS FOR DRIVERS.
LET'S KEEP THE CARROTS BUT GET
RID OF THE STICKS PLEASE.
I HAVE ONE OF THIS COME UP WITH
A CENTER SONG FROM THE MUSIC TO
SAY YOU'VE GOT TROUBLE RIGHT
HERE.
YOU'VE GOT TROUBLE IN OUR CITY.
YOU'VE GOT TO DRIVE THROUGH IN
YOUR COMMUNITY.
PLEASE.
IT'S NOT THAT BIG A DEAL.
ALL RIGHT.
SO I THANK YOU FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION AND I WILL REALLY
RELINQUISH BY THANK YOU
.
THERE ARE NO OTHER CALLERS VICE
CHAIR IF I MAY THE LAST CALLER
MENTIONED AS A SUMMARY OF THE
TEN TWELVE OUTREACH MEETING
THAT WAS REFERENCED IN THE
STAFF REPORT IT IS CORRECT THAT
THAT WAS UNFORTUNATELY OMITTED
FROM THE PACKET.
WE'RE GOING TO TRY TO CORRECT
THAT ISSUE RIGHT NOW AND AS
WE'VE BEEN SITTING HERE, WE DO
HAVE ONE MORE CALLER.
IT IS POSTED ONLINE.
I'M HEARING ON THE WEBSITE FOR
THE T1 ONE PROJECT PAGE.
THANK YOU MAX KELLY AND PLANET
LEO.
WE HAVE ONE MORE CALLER WHO
WANTS TO SPEAK GREAT.
WE DO JUST ONE MOMENT.
THERE ARE ACTUALLY TWO MORE
CALLERS.
BRIAN CHAMBERS, YOU HAVE
PERMISSION TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION.
THANK YOU.
I AM CALLING IN SUPPORT OF P.S.
ONE FOR PLYMOUTH ROAD AS I WAS
WATCHING I'M WHEN TO GET TO IT.
I SUPPORT FOR ALL OF THE
REASONS OTHER CALLERS HAVE
ALREADY MENTIONED BUT I WANT TO
ADD AN ADDITIONAL DIMENSION THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN HAS
GROWN AT A COMPOUNDED GROWTH
RATE OVER THE PAST TWENTY YEARS
JUST AROUND TWO PERCENT PER
YEAR.
THE STUDENT ENROLLMENT
INCREASED ANOTHER TWO PERCENT
BETWEEN TWENTY TWO POINT TWENTY
THREE FOR THE START OF THE FALL
SEMESTER.
AND WHEN I WENT TO THE LAND USE
PLANNING SESSION OF TWENTY
FIFTY THAT THE UNIVERSITY IS
CONDUCTING ONE OF THE LEADS ON
THE EXACTLY TEAM SAID THAT THEY
ARE ALSO RUNNING SCENARIOS FOR
CONTINUED GROWTH AND INCLUDING
THAT TWO PERCENT GROWTH METRIC
COMPOUNDED YEAR OVER YEAR.
SO OVER THE PAST TWENTY YEARS
AT TWO PERCENT COMPANY GROWTH
THE AVERAGE CAMPUS STUDENTS
EMPLOYMENT INCREASED BY THIRTY
FIVE THOUSAND SIX HUNDRED IF
THAT GROWTH CONTINUES TO TWENTY
FIFTY ONE THE SCENARIOS IT'S
NOT A COMMITMENT BY YOU IT WILL
INCREASE BY ANOTHER SEVENTY
THREE THOUSAND ON CAMPUS
STUDENT ENROLLMENT INCREASES
OF TWENTY FIVE THOUSAND IN
EMPLOYMENT OF JUST OVER FIFTY
THOUSAND SO WE NEED DENSITY
WALKABLE DENSITY ADJACENT TO
TRANSIT ADJACENT TO THE
UNIVERSITY OTHERWISE WE'RE
GOING TO BE INUNDATED WITH
TRAFFIC CONGESTION.
SO I'M VERY MUCH IN SUPPORT
OF THIS.
EVEN IF THEY GROW AT ONLY HALF
THAT RATE THEY'RE STILL GOING
TO BE AN INCREASE OF THIRTY TWO
THOUSAND WHICH IS ROUGHLY
EQUIVALENT TO THE PAST TWENTY
YEARS.
SO WE'RE GOING TO HAVE
CONTINUED PRESSURE ON HOME
PRICES IN ARBOR.
IT'S STILL A GO TO ADDRESS THAT
PEOPLE WANT AND BUILDING OUT
INCREASED DENSITY IN ALL
OF THESE TO ONE AREA IS VITALLY
IMPORTANT.
I'D ALSO LIKE TO MAKE A PLUG
HOWEVER FOR THE DOWNTOWN CORE
WE'VE GOT TWO REGIONAL TRANSIT
CENTERS MTA AND AMTRAK AND I
KNOW THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN IS
ONGOING AND HOPEFULLY WILL
ADDRESS THE DOWNTOWN CORE IF
IT'S NOT PART OF THAT
ASSIGNMENT, I WOULD ENCOURAGE
YOU TO MAKE IT ONE FOR REGIONAL
TRANSIT CENTERS TO HAVE TWO
OF THEM CLOSE PROXIMITY TO EACH
OTHER.
YOU WOULD ACTUALLY AND BEST
PRACTICES FOR SUSTAINABILITY
AND SO ON PURPOSE IS A
POPULATION OF ABOUT TEN
THOUSAND WITHIN A QUARTER OF A
HALF MILE AREA.
THERE'S OTHER PROPERTIES BEING
CONSIDERED FOR HOTELS.
I SUGGEST THEY DON'T COUNT FOR
ESSENTIAL HOUSING BUT WE NEED
TO REALLY INCREASE HOUSING IN
THE DOWNTOWN CORE TO MAKE A
COMPLETE TRANSIT ORIENTED
DEVELOPMENT CAPACITY,
ESPECIALLY WITH THE
UNIVERSITY'S PROJECTED GROWTH
RATE.
WE HAVE TO CHANGE STRUCTURALLY
WHAT AND HOW AND OPERATES WE
CAN'T IGNORE THE UNIVERSITY.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
OUR FINAL COLOR IS ERIC SACKUR.
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO DRESS
THE COMMISSION.
HELLO THIS IS ERIC ZAKARI IT
PERFECTLY THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
I'M A NEIGHBOR TO THE NORTH
OF THIS KEESEY ONE REZONING I
LIVE ON PRAIRIE EIGHTY TWO
POINT THIRTY FIVE PRAIRIE I
HAVE TO BE EXACT AND I LIVE
JUST A STONE'S THROW NORTH
LIMIT THE ROAD HERE NEXT TO AN
ELEMENTARY SCHOOL AND I JUST
WANTED TO TALK A LITTLE BIT
ABOUT THE HISTORIC AREA HERE.
THIS AREA IS HISTORICALLY
DEVELOPED IN THE 1960S.
PLANNING DEPARTMENTS AT THAT
TIME THOUGHT URBAN
REVITALIZATION WAS USING URBAN
FREEWAYS AND MORE CAR TRAFFIC
AND EASY IN EASY OUT ACCESS TO
STRIP MALLS.
THIS AREA VERY MUCH REFLECTS
THAT IN THE SINGLE MILE BETWEEN
THE FREEWAY AND THE AREA THAT I
FAVOR WITH THEIR THERE'S LIKE
SEVEN BANKS WITH DRIVE THRU.
THERE'S THREE FAST FOODS.
THERE IS ALL THE SHOPPING IN
THE AREA AND SINGINGI STRIP
MALLS WITH THROUGH THE
INFRASTRUCTURE IN.
DESPITE ALL OF THAT, THIS
AREA'S STILL WALKABLE.
A LOT OF THE PEOPLE THAT LIVE
IN THE AREA THAT LUCKY ENOUGH
TO LIVE IN HOMES OR APARTMENTS
OR TOWNHOUSES I USE THE
AMENITIES QUITE FREQUENTLY AND
WE DON'T HAVE EVERYTHING WE
WANT UP HERE.
WE DON'T HAVE AN ICE CREAM
PARLOR ANYMORE BUT WE HAVE A
LOT AND THE THINGS THAT WE
DON'T HAVE OUR MIXED USE AREA
IS WE DON'T HAVE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING IN THE AREA ANYMORE.
I WAS LUCKY ENOUGH TO BUY IN
WHEN I COULD AFFORD IT I
COULDN'T AFFORD IT NOW I THINK
THAT'S WRONG AND I THINK THIS
AREA OF TOWN DESERVES BETTER.
IT'S MY HOME AND I LOVE BEING
LIKE WALK TO WHERE I NEED TO GO
BUT OTHER PEOPLE SHOULD BE ABLE
TO AFFORD THAT TOO.
I HEARD ANOTHER CALLER EARLIER
SAYING WHY THE RUSH?
I THINK ABOUT THE MOST RECENT
DEVELOPMENTS IN FLORIDA OVER
BIG BOY RESTAURANT HAS TURNED
INTO A DIRECTORY PIERA WENDY'S
IS TURNING INTO AN OFFICE
BUILDING AT THE END OF MY
STREET IS TURNING INTO A CREDIT
UNION.
SO WHY THE RUSH?
I WOULD SAY WE CAN DO BETTER.
THAT'S WHY THE PEOPLE ARE
ALREADY REDEVELOPING
THINGS.
WE MIGHT AS WELL TELL THEM WHAT
WE WANT IN THE AREA AND WE KNOW
FROM A COMMUNITY EMPLOYEE THAT
WE DON'T WANT MORE ATTACKS, WE
DON'T WANT MORE DRIVES THROUGH
IS WE WANT MORE LIVABLE AREA.
WE WANT A BETTER WALKABLE
PEACEFUL AREA UP HERE MORE
OF WHAT WE ALREADY HAVE.
SO I REALLY DO ENCOURAGE YOU TO
CONSIDER ON THIS PATH WITH ONE
REASON THE AREA DON'T LISTEN TO
RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS BETWEEN
TWO PRIVATE PARTIES BECAUSE
THAT IS NOT THE CITY'S
BUSINESS.
WE SHOULD JUST REZONE AS OUR
PLANNING STAFF HAS.
DESIGNERS, THANK YOU VERY MUCH
.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
SEE NO OTHER CALLERS OR
SPEAKERS.
WE WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING.
I WILL READ THE PROPOSED MOTION
THE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
HEREBY RECOMMENDS THAT THE
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL APPROVE
AMENDMENTS TO THE ZONING UP A
PART OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE TO
DESIGNATE THE ZONING
CLASSIFICATION OF PARCELS IN
THE PLYMOUTH ROAD AREA AS ONE
AND DESIGNATE CERTAIN LENGTHS
OF PLYMOUTH ROAD AS TRANSIT
CORRIDOR OR STREET TYPE AS
SHOWN ON THE ATTACHED ORDINANCE
MOVED BY COMMISSIONER SANDY
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
WILLIAM EXCUSE ME WE'RE IN
DISCUSSION.
IS THERE ANYBODY WHO WOULD LIKE
TO KICK OFF OUR DISCUSSION?
COMMISSIONER H.
ALL RIGHT.
WELL THANKS SO MUCH FOR THE
STAFF PRESENTATION AS WELL AS
FOR THE COMMENTS.
I THINK REGARDING THE FIVE
HOUSES THAT THE HOUSE COMMENTER
SPOKE ABOUT, THEY ARE NOT UNDER
CONSIDERATION FOR THE TSAY ONE
ZONING, IS THAT CORRECT?
THAT IS CORRECT IN THEIR
CURRENT ZONING WILL REIGN AS IT
IS THEY ARE NOT PART OF THE
REZONING.
I DON'T HAVE AN ANSWER FOR YOU
ON WHAT MIGHT HAPPEN TO A
RETAILER WHO DECIDES TO TAKE
ADVANTAGE TO TAKE ONE AND
TRANSFORM THE TENANT SPACE THAT
YOU OWN BECAUSE THEY'D HAVE TO
MEET THE CRITERIA OF THE ZONING
WHICH I BELIEVE WOULD BE A TWO
STORY IF THEY WERE DOING A
SUBSTANTIVE REMODEL NOT JUST
LIKE A FACADE CHANGE BUT IF
THEY WERE CHANGING SQUARE
FOOTAGE OR FOR PLAN OR
SOMETHING THAT WOULD REQUIRE
THE THE SECOND STORY AND THAT
THAT WOULD HAVE A DIRECT IMPACT
BUT THAT COULD HAPPEN TODAY.
IT'S NOT A FACTOR OF ONE.
IT COULD HAPPEN DEPENDING ON
WHAT THE OWNER OF YOUR YOUR
SPACE WOULD WANT TO DO WITH
THAT SPACE.
SO THERE'S NOT A REAL CLEAN
ANSWER FOR THAT.
BUT THANK YOU FOR BRINGING THE
COMMENT FOR OUR CONSIDERATION.
I HAVE TWO QUESTIONS FOR YOU,
MR. LIU.
ONE IS WILL YOUR SLIDES WHICH
ARE NOT YOUR STAFF REPORT BE
AVAILABLE?
YES, THEY WILL BE WAITING FOR
THE ACTUALLY PRESENT THEM
TONIGHT AND THEN TOMORROW
MORNING I WILL POST THEM ON
MONDAY SO MUCH AND THEN THE I
DON'T THINK YOU SPOKE ABOUT THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING PREMIUM IN
YOUR HEIGHT LIMITS.
I DID NOT.
OK DID YOU IS THERE A REASON
WHY YOU DID THAT THAT YOU WOULD
LIKE TO SHARE WITH US JUST
BREVITY AND COMPLEXITY OK THAT
BUT IT APPLIES TO EVERY SINGLE
ZONING DISTRICT SO THERE IS AN
EXCEPTION TO THE HEIGHT LIMITS
AND ANY PROJECT IN ANY ZONING
DISTRICT CAN INCREASE THEIR
HEIGHT BY 30 PERCENT IF THEY
MEET ONE OF TWO CRITERIA THEIR
CHOICE ONE IF THEY ARE AN
AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROJECT AND
THERE IS A DEFINITION FOR THAT
OR IF THEY ARE A SUSTAINABLE
DEVELOPMENT AND THERE IS A
DEFINITION FOR THAT A
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
GENERALLY IS ONE THAT IS FULLY
ELECTRIFIED AND HAS SOLAR
PANELS ON THE ROOFS AND SO BUT
BECAUSE IT APPLIES TO EVERY
SINGLE ZONING DISTRICT ALREADY
THE SAME GRAPHICS APPLIES JUST
ADD JUST CHANGE THE TOP NUMBERS
BUT THE PROPORTIONALITY REMAINS
THE SAME.
GREAT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH COMMISSIONER
.
I HAVE A COUPLE OF QUESTIONS.
FIRST I WANTED TO JUST ADDRESS
ONE OTHER THING WHICH IS TO BE
CLEAR THAT ZONING AND OCCUPANCY
ARE SEPARATE.
SO ZONING JUST AS KIND OF WHAT
USES WHETHER THAT SPACE IS
RENTED OR OWNER OCCUPIED IS IS
NOT TIED TO THE ZONING ITSELF.
SO THAT'S ONE OF THE THINGS TO
KNOW KIND OF WITHIN OUR ZONING
CODE .
THE OTHER THING THAT I THINK
THE REST ARE QUESTIONS ABOUT
CHANGES TO THE MAP OR LIKE
THINGS IN THINGS OUT SO DEED
RESTRICTIONS ARE HOW CAN YOU
HELP ME UNDERSTAND HOW THAT IS
OR IS NOT TIED TO ZONING ZONING
VIEWS RESTRICTIONS AS SOMETHING
THAT YOU DO OUTSIDE AND
SEPARATE THE ZONING IS THE CITY
REGULATING THE LAND AND A DEED
RESTRICTION UNLESS THE CITY
PUTS IT THERE BUT A DEED
RESTRICTION IS SOMETHING THAT A
PRIVATE PROPERTY OWNER PUTS ON
THEIR OWN LAND OR SOMEHOW
NEGOTIATES GREECE TO PUT ON
OTHERS.
AND SO THAT IS A FOR AN OWNER
OF THAT PROPERTY I ASSUME THEY
WOULD NEED TO COMPLY WITH BOTH
BUT THE CITY JUST STAYS IN OUR
LANE OF ZONING AND ZONING.
WE DO NOT ENFORCE DEED
RESTRICTIONS.
WE DON'T REQUIRE THEM GENERALLY
ACQUIRE THEM.
SO THIS WOULD BE SOMETHING FROM
THE PROPERTY OWNERS PERSPECTIVE
IT WOULD BE ABOVE BEYOND BUT WE
VIEW THEM AS A SELF SELF
CREATED , SELF IMPOSED AND AND
IF THEY WOULD LIKE TO CONTINUE
TO ABIDE BY THEM THAT IS FINE.
SO ONE OF THE THINGS THAT'S IN
MY MIND IS LIKE THAT THEY HAVE
THAT AGREEMENT THAT THEY
ENTERED INTO I'M TRYING TO
THINK THROUGH IF WE DO REZONE
IT, DOES IT POSE ANY ADDITIONAL
BURDEN OR HARDSHIP LIKE OR IS
IT GOING TO LEAD TO SOME
UNINTENDED CONSEQUENCE
OF BECAUSE OF NONCONFORMITY
THAT ARE
CREATED ?
I'M I I CAN'T REALLY SAY I
DON'T KNOW EXACTLY WHAT THE
DEED RESTRICTIONS SAY.
IT MAY MAKE IT IT MAY MAKE IT
VERY HARD FOR SOMEONE WITH A
DEED RESTRICTION ON THEIR
PROPERTY TO THEN REDEVELOP HER.
THAT'S ONE STANDARDS AND SO
MAYBE THEY CAN'T REDEVELOP AS
MAYBE THEY'LL HAVE TO ADDRESS
THAT.
WE HAVE RUN ACROSS THEY'RE NOT
DEED RESTRICTIONS BUT WE'VE RUN
ACROSS IN OUR WORKING'S WITH
ONE AND REASONINGS SOME
PROPERTY OWNERS, COMMERCIAL
PROPERTY OWNERS SAYING I HAVE
SIGNED LEASES WHERE I HAVE
PROMISED I WOULD NOT HAVE SUCH
AND SUCH A TENANT OR I PROMISED
I WOULD NOT DEVELOP OR PUT A
BUILDING IN FRONT OF THIS
BUILDING AND THE PLANNING
COMMISSION AND CITY COUNCIL'S
RESPONSE HAS BEEN OK, WE'LL
WAIT THEM OUT THEN WE'LL WAIT
OUT THOSE LEASES.
SO AGAIN WITH THESE
RESTRICTIONS I DON'T KNOW WHAT
EXACTLY SAY I DON'T KNOW IF
THEY'LL BE AN UNINTENDED
CONSEQUENCE BUT IT'S PRIVATE.
THAT'S A DEED RESTRICTION THAT
THEY AGREE TO AND THEY PUT ON
THAT THEY WOULD IT CAN REMAIN
THERE AND I THINK THE
CONSEQUENCE IS THEY MAY FIND IT
HARD TO REDEVELOP UNDER THE
TWENTY ONE STANDARDS CAN YOU
WOULD IT BE POSSIBLE FOR YOU TO
BRING UP THE MAP BECAUSE WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT SO THAT WE CAN
TALK THE DEED RESTRICTION, MAKE
SURE THAT I'M RIGHT IS LINKED
TO THE FIRST MARTIN EMAIL
SAYING WE DON'T WANT TO BE
RESOLVED RIGHT.
AND IF YOU CAN POINT OUT WHICH
PARCELS THAT IT IS THAT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT AND ALSO WHILE
YOU'VE GOT E I ALL OF MY OTHER
QUESTIONS ABOUT E TO OK, GIVE
ME A SECOND I'M GOING TO PULL
UP JUST OUR OUR OUR MAP NOT THE
ONE FROM THE PRESENTATION BUT
THIS HAS ALL THE LAYERS PARTIAL
INFORMATION SUPER OWNING.
YEAH I WAS GOING TO SAY I'VE
GOT THE ZONING MAP UP ON MY
COMPUTER TOO BECAUSE THAT'S BUT
I COULDN'T ONE HUNDRED PERCENT
FIGURE OUT WHICH PARCELS WE
WERE TALKING ABOUT.
ALL RIGHT.
SO THE FIRST I'M GOING TO FOCUS
IN I GUESS ON TWO THOUSAND
COMMONWEALTH BECAUSE IT'S RIGHT
NEXT DOOR TO TWO THOUSAND ONE
MCPAUL PULLED UP AND THEN I'M
GOING TO SCREEN HERE BECAUSE
THAT'S PROBABLY WHAT EVERYONE
WANTS.
I DO TALK TO MYSELF AFTER NINE
O'CLOCK I DON'T GIVE MYSELF
TIME LIMIT.
I JUST DO IT ALL DAY.
I HAVE A LITTLE SPACE JUST
PEOPLE IN THERE THEIR IF I CAN
KNOW I GET ONE MORE THING TO
CLICK ON HERE.
OK, IF I MOVE IT IT WILL GO
AWAY BUT HERE IS TWO THOUSAND
YOU SEE THE TWO THOUSAND IS
THIS VISIBLE.
YEAH THERE'S A TWO THOUSAND SO
HERE IT IS I CAN TAKE OFF THE
ZONING FOR A MINUTE.
IT'S THIS ORANGE COLOR THAT
INDICATES BUT HERE'S A HERE IT
IS JUST WITH IT'S GOT A
BUILDING THERE AND IT'S GRAY I
CAN EVEN MAKE IT.
NOPE.
WRONG BUTTON I CAN MAKE I CAN
DO THAT BUT SO HERE IS TWO
THOUSAND COMMONWEALTH AND I
THINK THAT THIS IS THE ONE TO
THE WEST OF IT.
YEAH I GOT THE PARCELS ARE GONE
SOMEHOW THE PARCELS ARE THERE
UM
NO I THINK IT'S UP HERE
FLYBE IT'S HERE YES HERE THERE
IS TWENTY
ONE COMMONWEALTH SO
IT'S CARSON'S BISTRO AND THE
BANK SO PART OF THIS IS PUDI
BUT IT'S NOT THE ENTIRETY
OF THE PARTY IT'S CURRENTLY ON
PUDI BUT THE REST OF THAT
CORNER AS OPPOSED TO AND THEN
THE OTHER PART IS THE FRONTAGE
ALONG PLYMOUTH BUT THAT IS
CURRENTLY ZONED ACCORDING TO
THE ZONING MAP R E RIGHT TWO
THOUSAND AND ONE IS OWNED R.E.
TWO THOUSAND IS ON PUDI GOT IT
SO THAT IT IS AT A TAIL IS
BETTER TO ME THAN IT WAS IN THE
MIDDLE BUT I'M STILL I WELCOME
OTHER PEOPLE'S THOUGHTS ON THAT
PART KIND OF HOW TO HANDLE THAT
ACTUALLY RELATED TO THIS THOUGH
A QUESTION ABOUT PDS AND IN AND
YOUR ENCYCLOPEDIA KNOWLEDGE
OF ALL OF THE T C ONE REZONING
THAT WE'VE DONE SO FAR, HOW
COMMON IS IT THAT WE HAVE RISEN
PDS WELL IT'S NOT SUPER COMMON
AT THERE WAS ONE PARTY AND THE
WEST STADIUM AREA THAT WE DID
REZONE AND THERE WAS I THINK
THERE WAS ONE IN STAYTON
EISENHAUER GENERALLY IT'S NOT
COMMON BUT I WOULD SAY THIS
IT'S NOT COMMON TO DO A CITY
INITIATED REZONING EITHER.
OK, BUT ERM BUT I MEAN THERE
ARE EFFECTIVELY WE'RE NOT
REZONING RESIDENTIAL AND THAT'S
ONE THAT'S PART OF OUR TSAY ONE
WE HAVE NOT BEEN REZONING
RESIDENT SO I WAS JUST TRYING
TO THINK ABOUT LIKE WHICH ARE
THE DISTRICTS THAT WE TEND TO
EMPLOY AS ELIGIBLE FOR REZONING
AND SO THAT'S WHAT I'M TRYING
TO UNDERSTAND HERE.
MY ENCYCLOPEDIC KNOWLEDGE IS
FAILING ME AT THIS EXACT MOMENT
BUT THE INTENT OF THE PIECE TO
SEE ONE DISTRICT TALKS ABOUT IT
IS FOR DISTRICTS IT IS FOR LAND
THAT IS ALREADY ZONED FOR
COMMERCIAL OR MIXED USE OR
NONRESIDENTIAL PURPOSES.
AND THAT WAS OUR LINE THAT WE
CHOSE TO SELF-IMPOSED THAT THIS
IS THIS IS A RENOVATION OR A
TRANSFORMATION OF OUR MIXED-USE
DISTRICTS.
THIS IS NOT TO EXPAND OUR
NONRESIDENTIAL FOOTPRINT IN THE
CITY.
THIS WAS JUST TO TRANSFORM WHAT
WE WILL BE GETTING IN THESE
DISTRICTS IN THOSE IN WHAT ARE
CURRENTLY NOT ADEQUATE WOULD BE
ALLOWED RESIDENTIAL IS ALLOWED
IN THEM NOW IN MOST MANY
OF THEM NOW WE'RE JUST NOT
GETTING IT AND THIS IS TO HELP
US CORRECT ALL OF OUR MIXED USE
DISTRICTS ALREADY ALLOW
RESIDENTIAL OK, GREAT.
SO I'M ON THE FENCE LIKE NOT
EXCLUDING THEM.
I'LL BE HONEST I WOULD JUST
LIKE KEEP THEM IN AND THEY'RE
DEED RESTRICTIONS GOING TO DO
THEIR THING.
NOW THAT YOU'VE GOT THE MAP
THOUGH IF YOU CAN MOVE A LITTLE
BIT TO THE EAST AND TO THE
NORTH, I WANT TO TALK ABOUT THE
THERE'S TWO MORE THINGS ON THE
LIST AND THEN I'LL STOP.
BUT ONE IS THE THE PETITION TO
INCLUDE PROPERTY WHICH WHEN I'M
AND I'M GLAD THAT YOU'RE
LOOKING AT THE ZONING MAP
BECAUSE THE INCLUSION IS ALL
CURRENTLY OFFICE OR WHAT IS
WHAT THE PETITIONER OR WHAT
SOMEBODY WROTE TO US WANTS TO
INCLUDE AS IS CURRENTLY OFFICE.
BUT WHAT I FOUND WEIRD IS THAT
IT CREATES A LITTLE DONUT
AROUND A CREDIT UNION WHICH I
DON'T THINK THAT WE SHOULD HAVE
A DONUT AROUND A CREDIT UNION
AND THAT IT LEAVES JUST THE THE
POST OFFICE KIND OF HANGING OUT
THERE AS THE ONLY OFFICE IN
THIS STRETCH.
SO I WOULD JUST SAY I I I'M NOT
OPPOSED TO EXTENDING THAT
ESPECIALLY SINCE THEY ARE
SHARING THE PARKING LOT BUT
THEY'RE ALREADY CONNECTED AT
LEAST ACCORDING TO THE LETTER.
BUT I'M NOT COMFORTABLE LEAVING
A DONUT THAT IS NOT ON THE THAT
IS THAT HAS THAT HAS NOT BEEN
THAT IS ON THE CORRIDOR.
THAT IS NOT PART OF THIS.
SO YOU THINK CAN YOU TALK US
THROUGH THE PROCESS OR DOES
THAT MAKE SENSE TO YOU TO OR
THINK ABOUT WHY THESE WERE NOT
INCLUDED?
YEAH, I'LL HELP YOU WITH TWO
PARTS BUT I CAN'T HELP YOU WITH
A THIRD IN TERMS OF THE PROCESS
.
YOU HAVE A MOTION BEFORE YOU
THAT STATE WORDS WORDS, WORDS
AS SHOWN ON THE ATTACHED
ORDINANCE AND SO TO INCLUDE YOU
WOULD MAKE AMEND THAT MOTION TO
SAY SOMETHING ALONG THE LINES
OF PLUS PARCEL OR PARCEL WITH
STREET ADDRESS TWENTY THREE
FIFTY GREEN ROAD OR WHATEVER
YOU'D LIKE TO ADD OR YOU CAN
AMEND THEM AND OR YOU CAN AMEND
THE MOTION TO SAY ACCEPT STRIKE
LINE NUMBER SOMETHING SOMETHING
OUT OF THE ORDINANCE.
SO THAT'S THE PROCESS THAT YOU
WOULD USE IN TERMS OF WHY IT
WASN'T INCLUDED.
WE TOOK OUR MOST EDUCATED BEST
GUESS ABOUT WHAT AND HEARING
THE FEEDBACK FROM OTHER TO ONE
PETITIONS ABOUT AND WHERE THE
BOUNDARIES ULTIMATELY LANDED
FOR THOSE AND WE TRIED TO APPLY
THAT EXPERIENCE TO THIS
PROPOSAL AND IT IS A PROPOSAL
AND WE CHOSE PARCELS THAT FRONT
OR ARE SOMEHOW CONNECTED MAYBE
THROUGH A PARKING LOT TO
PLYMOUTH ROAD AND WE DIDN'T GO
MANY PARCELS DEEP PAST THE
CORRIDOR.
NOW THERE IS NO NECESSARILY
NECESSARILY RIGHT OR WRONG
ANSWER BUT THIS WAS OUR THE
PETITION THAT WE ASSEMBLED ON
BEHALF OF THE PLANNING
COMMISSION AND PRESENTED AND WE
RECEIVED FEEDBACK FROM THE
PUBLIC HEARINGS.
I DIDN'T MEAN THAT.
I MEANT PUBLIC MEETINGS AND I'M
WORKING SESSIONS AND AND THAT'S
WHY WE DID OR DIDN'T I THINK
THESE PARCELS UP ON GREEN ROAD
I THINK YOU CAN WORK YOUR WAY
BACK THROUGH PARKING THERE
NORTH ON GREEN ROAD AND I THINK
THEY ARE INTERCONNECTED BUT
THEY DON'T HAVE A DIRECT
CONNECTION TO PLYMOUTH.
THEY HAVE A CONNECTION TO GREEN
AND THAT WAS OUR LOGIC.
LIKE I SAID, IT'S NOT TO SAY
THAT THAT IS THE THE ONLY
ANSWER THAT CAN ARRIVED.
THE THIRD PART WHICH I WOULD
JUST HAVE TO TURN BACK TO THE
PLANNING TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSION AS A WHOLE BODY
WHATEVER YOU READ THIS IS YOUR
RECOMMENDATION FOR REZONING TO
CITY COUNCIL AND SO YOU CAN USE
THAT PROCEDURE MECHANISM TO ADD
OR REMOVE ADDRESSES FROM THE
ORDINANCE.
HAS THERE BEEN ANY DISCUSSION
OR ANY WE DIDN'T WE GOT A
LETTER FROM OXFORD ABOUT THE
WHAT'S SHOWN IN IT IN THE IN
THE LETTER IN ORANGE I'M
THINKING OF THE ORANGE EDITION.
HAS THERE BEEN ANY DISCUSSION
WITH THE COMMUNITY OR THE
CREDIT UNION THAT THAT CREATES
THE DONUT AROUND?
WELL, I HAVE NOT CALLED THE
CREDIT UNION MYSELF AND THEY
HAVE NOT CALLED IN.
OK, SO AGAIN I I WELCOME
OTHER'S THOUGHTS ON THAT AND ON
THE PARCELS NORTH ON GREEN ROAD
BUT PERSONALLY I DON'T THINK WE
SHOULD DO IT WITH THE DONUT.
SO THEN FINALLY GO SOUTH ON
GREEN ROAD TO GREEN COURT
BECAUSE I'M CONFUSED FROM THE
POSTPONEMENT EARLIER AND I
DIDN'T NECESSARILY SEE THAT IN
THE PACKET.
MAYBE I MISSED IT SO SIMILARLY
CAN YOU EXPLAIN TO US THE GREEN
COURT THE RATIONALE FOR THE
POSTPONEMENT AND HOW THAT LINKS
TO THIS?
IT'S ABUTTING THIS BUT I DIDN'T
SEE ANYTHING THAT WAS LIKE A
FORMAL PROPOSAL TO BE INCLUDED
.
PERHAPS THERE HAS BEEN A
COMMUNICATION SNAFU TO MY
KNOWLEDGE THE PLANNING
DEPARTMENT OR MYSELF OR THE
PLANNING MANAGER HAVE NOT
RECEIVED A LETTER THAT SAID TO
THE EFFECT DEAR PLANNING
COMMISSION, PLEASE INCLUDE US.
I UNDERSTAND THERE'S BEEN TALK
AND I WAS AND I MISSED THE
FIRST TEN MINUTES THE MEETING
WAS THERE ANY AND YOU TALK SO I
DON'T KNOW IF THERE'S BEEN A
FORMAL REQUEST OR NOT FORMAL
REQUEST YOU DON'T NECESSARILY
NEED A FORMAL REQUEST.
THE PLANNING COMMISSION AS A
BODY IS FREE TO AMEND THE
MOTION AS THEY SEE FIT.
I MAY HAVE MISSPOKE.
I DID STATE THAT EARLIER IN THE
MEETING BUT MR LEO WOULD HAVE
THE MOST UP TO DATE SPECIFICS
OR MANAGER LENAR ERM MY
UNDERSTANDING IS THAT THEY
ESSENTIALLY INTEND TO ASK FOR
THAT PARCEL TO BE INCLUDED.
THEY HAVE NOT.
WE HAD BEEN STRIVING TO GET
THAT WRITTEN REQUEST FROM THEM
BY THIS MEETING THAT HAS NOT
BEEN RECEIVED THAT I'VE SEEN TO
DATE.
IT COULD HAPPEN AFTER THE
PLANNING COMMISSION BEFORE THIS
PROGRESSES TO CITY COUNCIL AND
I THINK BASED ON THAT THAT WAS
PART OF THE REASON FOR THE
POSTPONEMENT THAT IF THIS WERE
TO BE INCLUDED IN REASON TO
TAKE ON, THEY MIGHT VERY WELL
THEN AND THAT COULD PETITION IF
FOR SOME REASON THE CITY
COUNCIL ONCE THEY DO REQUEST
AGAIN WE WANT TO RAISE IT IF
IT'S INCLUDED HERE OR NOT OR IF
IT'S INCLUDED A CITY COUNCIL OR
NOT THAT COULD HAVE AN OUTCOME
.
I THINK IT IS IMPORTANT TO
PAUSE THAT I WOULD SUGGEST THAT
IT'S THIS IS A REALLY UNIQUE
CIRCUMSTANCES.
THE CITY IS INITIATING THE
REZONING.
IT'S FRANKLY RELATIVELY EASY TO
ADD IT INTO THAT PROCESS THAT
IS DISTINCT FROM WHAT I WOULD
NEVER BRING TO COMPETING FOR
REZONING PETITIONS TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION ON A
PARCEL.
BUT BECAUSE THIS DIRECTION FROM
THE COUNCIL AND FROM THIS BEING
CITY INITIATED IT'S WARRANTED
TO RAISE THE POSSIBILITY FOR
THE SITE WHEN WE DISCUSS THE PD
A COUPLE OF WEEKS AGO I DON'T
EVEN WHATEVER I THINK THAT ONE
MAKES A WHOLE LOT MORE SENSE
RATHER THAN LOOKING INTO A
PADDY THAT THAT THEN YEAH.
SO
I'M SUPPORTIVE OF THAT.
I'M CURIOUS IF IT IF NOTICE
WISE FOR THE PROCESS LIKE IF IT
IF IT FLAGS ANYTHING ELSE AT
ALL IN TERMS OF WHO WAS MAILED
POSTCARDS AND WHAT HAPPENS
GOING FORWARD IN THIS BECAUSE
WE DID DIDN'T WE DID MAIL
THINGS THE POST ON THE TABLE SO
INCLUDING THE COMMONWEALTH
PROPERTIES ERM FIRST MARTIN AND
EXCLUDING THE PROPERTIES
UNGREEN FROM OXFORD TO THE
NORTH AND WHATEVER IT IS TO
THIS SO THAT THAT WAS A PUBLIC
HEARING NOTICES WERE SENT OUT
TO EVERYONE WITHIN THREE
HUNDRED FEET WITH THAT LIST
ATTACHED THAT EXACT LIST
ATTACHED TO IT THEY ARE MAILED
TO BOTH PROPERTY OWNERS AND
RESIDENT OCCUPANT TENANTS AND
THAT WAS FACTUAL AT THE TIME
THAT WAS CORRECT AS TO WHAT WAS
PROPOSED HERE FOR THIS PUBLIC
HEARING THE CITY COUNCIL AND
THEIR STAFF IN THE CLERK'S
MAILS OUT PUBLIC HEARING
NOTICES FOR PUBLIC HEARINGS AT
THE CITY COUNCIL AND IF THEY
ARE NOT THE SAME AS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION THEN
THEY'LL BE PICKED UP OR PICKED
UP OR DROPPED.
YES.
OK, GREAT.
SO IF THERE'S A PROCESS TO
INCLUDE THAT THEN THAT MAKES ME
FEEL A WHOLE LOT MORE
COMFORTABLE GOING BOTH NORTH
AND SOUTH ON GREEN ROAD AND I
WOULD STRONGLY I WOULD VERY
MUCH SUPPORT IF THERE'S ANY
OTHER INTEREST IN AN AMENDMENT
THAT WOULD ADD ON THE ALL
OF THE GREEN COURT STUFF.
BUT AGAIN, I DON'T WANT TO
CREATE A DONUT.
I WOULD WANT TO REZONE I WOULD
WANT TO EXTEND TO ONE TO THE
ENTIRETY OF THE ORANGE BLOCK
THAT WE ARE SEEING ON THE
SCREEN RIGHT NOW WHICH I THINK
IS THE PD RIGHT OR WHATEVER IS
CURRENTLY IN THE ORANGE BLOCK
ON THE SCREEN ON THE EAST SIDE
OF GREEN ROAD IS YEAH.
AND SO I KNOW WHAT WAS BEFORE
US BEFORE WITH PART BETTER I
THINK I CAN'T REMEMBER ANYWAY
THE WHOLE THING THE WHOLE THING
IS I THINK I WOULD BE AMENABLE
TO EXTENDING REZONING ALL
OF THAT AND SIMILARLY GOING
NORTH I'M THAT JUST SEEMS
SENSIBLE TO ME.
THE DENHA THEY JUST HAVE ONE
MORE QUESTION AND THAT IS WE
DON'T HAVE ANYTHING THAT HAS
BEEN WE'D HAVEN'T HAD ANYTHING
BUILT IN THIS ONE.
BUT WHAT ARE YOU HEARING?
WHAT IS DEAF HEARING LIKE?
ARE THERE PROPOSALS WORKING
THEIR WAY THROUGH?
ARE PEOPLE SAYING WE DON'T LIKE
IT LIKE HERE'S WHAT'S WRONG
WITH ONE AND WE'RE NOT GOING TO
BUILD ANYTHING LIKE WHAT'S IT
TAKES A WHILE TO GET THROUGH
THE PROCESS.
SO WHAT DO WE THINK THAT THIS
IS A WORKABLE ZONING DISTRICT?
I CERTAINLY THINK IT'S A
WORKABLE ZONING DISTRICT.
WE'RE HEARING A LOT OF CALLS
SORT OF THE I WANT TO DOUBLE
CHECK THE STANDARDS.
DO I HAVE MY CONCEPT?
DO I HAVE MY SKETCH RIGHT.
WE WE'RE GETTING MORE OF THOSE
COMPARED TO OTHER DISTRICTS BUT
THE OTHER DISTRICTS HAVE BEEN
AROUND FOR A LOT LONGER.
IT'S MY PERSONAL OPINION THAT
IT'S VERY MUCH CORRIDOR BY
CORRIDOR.
I THINK THE STADIUM CORRIDOR AS
AN EXAMPLE THERE'S NOT A LOT
OF VACANCIES ON STADIUM
BOULEVARD.
IT'S A PRETTY STRONG AND STRONG
COMMERCIAL CORRIDOR.
SO I DON'T THINK THERE'S I
DON'T THINK THE REZONING MATTER
THERE WASN'T MUCH PRESSURE OR
INCENTIVE TO REDEVELOP.
IT'S DOING WELL.
IT'S PROBABLY MAKING MONEY FOR
ITS BUSINESSES AND LAND OWNERS
AND YOU NEED THAT TRIGGER WHEN
THINGS ARE GOING WELL.
EVERYBODY'S HAPPY WITH THE
STATUS QUO AND AND I THINK ALSO
WE'VE HAD ACTUALLY MORE
INQUIRIES ABOUT THOSE WHO HAVE
GOT A SKETCH ERM I DO I HAVE MY
STANDARDS CORRECT FOR STATE
EISENHOWER I THINK THERE'S MORE
VACANT LAND OR MORE UNDEVELOPED
LAND IN AND EISENHOWER PLYMOUTH
ROAD THE AREA IT'S PRETTY
STRONG THERE AREN'T TOO MANY
VACANCIES EITHER I WOULD
IMAGINE IT ALSO WOULD BE SLOW
TO SEE DEVELOPMENT BECAUSE IT'S
SLOW NOW THERE'S ONLY BEEN A
HANDFUL OF REDEVELOPMENT
PROPOSALS UNDER CURRENT ZONING
DESIGNATIONS BECAUSE IT'S
PRETTY STRONG.
SO I THINK I THINK IT WILL TAKE
TIME.
I I'M JUST SAYING THIS IS MY
GUT.
THIS IS NOT BECAUSE I HAVE A
WHOLE SLEW OF FACTS OR FIGURES
OR A CRYSTAL BUT YOU'RE NOT
HEARING WE THERE'S SOMETHING
THERE'S SOME REQUIREMENT IN DC
ONE THAT IS ACTUALLY HINDERING
DEVELOPMENT BECAUSE WE ARE
REQUIRING I MEAN YEAH RIGHT.
NOW THEY COULD UNDER CURRENT
ZONING THEY COULD DO A TWO
STOREY BUILDING.
THEY COULD DO A FOUR STORY
BUILDING BUT THEY WHAT I'M NOT
HEARING THE TWO STOREY BUILDING
PART.
I'M HEARING A LITTLE BIT OF THE
LOT WITH OK BUT WITH MIGHT BE A
LITTLE DIFFICULT AND THEN THE
THE BLOCK THE THE BLOCK SIZE
ESPECIALLY FROM SOME PEOPLE WHO
ARE TRYING TO DESIGN A VERY
LARGE BLOCK AND THEY'RE SAYING
I'M GOING TO BREAK MYSELF DOWN
INTO MAYBE FOUR OR FIVE BLOCKS
TWO OR THREE OF THEM PROBABLY
CAN BE TWO FIFTY BUT I'M LEFT
WITH THIS PIECE THAT'S LIKE TOO
BIG OR TOO SMALL I THINK THERE
THERE'S SOME DESIRE FOR A
LITTLE BIT OF FLEXIBILITY, A
LITTLE BIT OF AVERAGING BUT
THAT'S WHAT I'M I'M NOT HEARING
MUCH ABOUT THE TWO STOREY
REQUIREMENT AND I'M NOT HEARING
OF ALL THE DEVELOPMENT
STANDARDS.
WHAT I'M HEARING MORE IS SOME
OF THE STANDARDS PEOPLE SEEM TO
WISH THAT THERE WAS AVERAGE AND
NOT A HARD LINE AND THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT CAN BE TALKED
ABOUT IN THE FUTURE.
OK, THANK YOU COMMISSIONER
DISH.
THANK YOU.
FIRST I WANT TO SAY THIS IS AN
AMAZING STAFF REPORT AND I
THANK YOU VERY MUCH THE WORK
THAT STAFF HAS BEEN DOING ON
EVERYTHING RELATED TO SEE WHEN
THE STEP BACK AND THIS HAS
REALLY BEEN BEAUTIFUL AND I
WANT TO THANK YOU ALSO THANK
YOU VERY MUCH.
NEIGHBORHOOD PEOPLE WHO HAVE
COME TO ASK US QUESTIONS SO I
WANT I WANT TO TAKE A STAB AT
ADDRESSING MOSELEY'S QUESTIONS
AND YEAH, I SEE GOOD.
I CAN BARELY SEE YOU OVER THE
PODIUM BUT I THOUGHT YOU STAYED
.
SO I WANT TO UNDERSCORE
SOMETHING THAT MR LEO JUST SAID
WHICH IS THAT DEVELOPMENT ALONG
THIS CORRIDOR IS LIKELY TO BE
SLOW BECAUSE IT IS SLOW NOW AND
I WANT TO REAFFIRM THAT THE THE
BUILDING THAT YOU ARE IN PARTS
OF THE BUILDING ITSELF IT
CURRENTLY IF YOUR LANDLORD
WANTED TO SELL THAT BUILDING OR
DEVELOP IT THEMSELVES, THEY
COULD BUILD A FIFTY FIVE FOOT
STRUCTURE.
SO THAT'S LIKE A FOUR STOREY
ISH.
RIGHT.
IF IF THEY WANTED TO DO THAT
THEY COULD ALREADY DO IT.
SO THE REZONING WILL MAKE PARTS
OF THAT BUILDING POSSIBLE.
IT'LL GIVE AN EXTRA TWO STOREY
TO STORIES PROBABLY FOUR PARTS
OF THAT BUILDING AND THEN PARTS
OF THE PARKING LOT COULD GO AS
HIGH AS ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY
FEET.
AND SO I THINK SOMETIMES IT'S
AN ASSUMPTION THAT WHEN WE
PERMIT GREATER HEIGHT WE ARE
CREATING WEALTH AND WE ARE
ADDING VALUE.
NOW IF IF THERE WERE A DESIRE
TO MAXIMIZE VALUE THROUGH
GREATER HEIGHT LIKE I SAID
FIFTY FIVE FEET IS ALREADY
PERMITTED AND WE'RE NOT SEEING
YOUR LANDLORD SELLING THE
BUILDING AND WANTING TO DEVELOP
IT IN THOSE TERMS REZONING IT
TOOK ONE WHAT EFFECT DOES IT
HAVE?
WELL IT DOES PERMIT GREATER
HEIGHT BUT IT MAKES SOME IN
SOME WAYS IT MAKES DEVELOPMENT
MORE EXPENSIVE THAN CURRENTLY
BECAUSE OF THE PARKING
RESTRICTIONS.
RIGHT.
IT DOES NOT ALLOW FOR THE KIND
SURFACE PARKING THAT'S THERE
AND SO IF YOU WERE GOING TO
HAVE A TALLER BUILDING YOU ARE
GOING TO NEED MORE PARKING
ESPECIALLY IF IT'S MIXED USE
AND THAT MEANS THAT YOU ARE
GOING TO HAVE TO BUILD PARKING
STRUCTURE TO PARKING EITHER
UNDERNEATH OR SOMEHOW INSIDE
YOUR BUILDING AND THAT'S
EXPENSIVE.
SO WE ARE ADDING HEIGHT WHICH
POSSIBLY ADDS WEALTH BUT WE ARE
THEN TAKING SOME OF THAT WEALTH
BACK BY MAKING THE PARKING MORE
EXPENSIVE SO I DON'T HAVE A
CRYSTAL BALL.
I KNOW THAT THAT BUILDING IF
I'M REMEMBERING RIGHT WAS BUILT
IN SIXTY TWO I THINK SO FROM
THE LIST OF PROPERTIES AND IF
I'M WRONG CORRECT ME IF I'M
WRONG I'M WRONG BY DECADE IT'D
BE SEVENTY BUT I THINK IT'S
SIXTY TWO SO IT'S NOT THE
YOUNGEST BUILDING IN THE WORLD
BUT IT IS WORKING VERY WELL.
IT HAS A NUMBER OF VERY VIBRANT
SMALL BUSINESSES AND SO I DO
NOT KNOW WHAT THE CALCULUS YOUR
LANDLORD MIGHT BE MAKING.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT THAT WOULD BE
AND SO I UNDERSTAND YOUR
CONCERNS ABOUT WHAT COULD
HAPPEN IF THAT IF THE BUILDING
THAT IF A STRUCTURE THAT YOU
ARE IN WERE SOLD AND
REDEVELOPED.
THE OTHER THING TO KNOW IS THAT
JUST AS HIS HAS HAPPENED AT THE
VERY FRONT EDGE OF PLYMOUTH
WHERE THE STARBUCKS AND THE
ABOVE THE CARE SHOP ARE THIS IS
SOMETHING THAT TAXI ONE MAKES
EASIER THAT YOU DEVELOP IN A
SPACE WITHOUT DEMOLISHING
WHAT'S ALREADY THERE.
THERE'S A LOT OF PARKING LOT
THERE THAT IF SOMEONE WANTED TO
DEVELOP THEY COULD USE IT
WITHOUT DESTROYING THE CURRENT
WALL WITH ALL THE BUILDINGS
THAT ARE THERE IT'S A LITTLE
ODD IT WOULD BE A LITTLE ODD
BECAUSE IT'S SORT OF PARKING
BETWEEN THE BANK AND THE AND
THOSE OTHER SHOPS.
BUT NONETHELESS I'M JUST TRYING
TO RUN WITH YOU ALL THE
SCENARIOS THAT ARE POSSIBLE AND
THERE'S ABSOLUTELY NOTHING I
CAN SAY TO REASSURE YOU THAT
YOU HAVE NOTHING TO WORRY ABOUT
.
BUT MY SENSE TOO IS
THAT
REDEVELOPMENT THAT MIGHT
INVOLVE DISPLACING ALL OF THOSE
BUILDINGS WOULD NOT HAPPEN
OVERNIGHT IMMEDIATELY.
YOU KNOW, BUT IT'S IT'S ALSO A
DISCUSSION THAT YOU ALL COULD
TRY TO HAVE WITH YOUR LANDLORD.
BUT AGAIN, IF THAT PERSON WERE
INTERESTED IN DEVELOPING TO A
GREATER HEIGHT, THEY ALREADY
COULD AND THEY HAVEN'T MADE
THAT MOVE.
SO I'M SORRY I'M REPEATING
MYSELF BUT I WANT TO BE CLEAR
OK?
I'M REALLY GLAD COMMISSIONER
MILLS ASK THE QUESTIONS ABOUT
THE INCLUSIONS AND THE
EXCLUSIONS IN TERMS OF THE
INCLUSIONS, THE THE INCLUSION
ON GREEN THAT WOULD CREATE THE
DONUT IF WE DID IT EXACTLY AS
IT WERE ASKED FOR WOULD INVOLVE
REPURPOSING OFFICE SPACE.
CORRECT.
AM I AM I CORRECT IN THAT?
IS CURRENTLY ZONED OFFICE AND
OCCUPIED BY OFFICE?
WELL WE WANT TO ENCOURAGE THAT
SO I FEEL LIKE I'D LIKE TO HAVE
INCLUDE THAT AND AGAIN CORRECT
ME IF I'M MISUNDERSTANDING
SOMETHING BUT MY UNDERSTANDING
OF TICK ONE IS THAT IT IS A
DISTRICT THAT WE ARE APPLYING
AND FIXING IN PLACE IN SOME
PARTS OF THE CITY BUT CAN ALSO
BE DONE BY REQUEST.
SO IF WE HAVE A REQUEST AT THE
SAME TIME AS WE ARE FIXING THAT
APPLYING THAT AREA, WHY DON'T
WE JUST INCORPORATE IT RATHER
THAN MAKING SOMEBODY GO THROUGH
A CUMBERSOME REQUEST PROCESS
SOMEBODY WHO HAS A IT SOUNDED
LIKE FROM THE WAY MR CHANG WAS
TALKING ABOUT A SORT
OF HISTORICALLY VERY CURIOUS
AND UNIQUE U.D. BUT I DON'T
KNOW THAT WE WANT TO JUST KEEP
IT BECAUSE IT'S HISTORICALLY
VERY INTERESTING AND CURIOUS.
WHY DON'T WE GIVE IT AN
AVAILABLE ZONING DECISION WHICH
IS ZONING DESIGNATION, WHICH IS
WHAT WE PREFER WE DON'T PREFER
TO HAVE BUDDZ WHEN WE HAVE A
ZONING DESIGNATION THAT THAT
CAN ACCOMPLISH THE SAME
PURPOSES SO I WOULD BE HAPPY
WITH THOSE INCLUSIONS
FROM MR
LEO'S RESPONSE ABOUT DEED DEED
RESTRICTIONS AND STUFF.
IT DOESN'T IT DOESN'T SOUND
LIKE WE'RE HURTING ANYTHING BY
REZONING TO TAKE WHAT WE MAY
NOT GET ANYTHING OUT OF IT BUT
IT DOESN'T SOUND LIKE WE ARE WE
KIND OF DON'T HAVE ANY BUSINESS
IN THOSE DEED RESTRICTIONS AND
SO IT DOESN'T SOUND LIKE OUR
ACTION AFFECTS THEM AND IF I AM
MISSING SOMETHING THAT'S MORE
NUANCED, WHICH IS VERY OFTEN
THE CASE, PLEASE ADD NUANCE.
I ALWAYS APPRECIATE
COMMISSIONER
FINALLY HERE.
THANK YOU FOR BRINGING THIS I
GUESS RELATIVE TO THE IN OUR
HOW I KIND OF MAYBE FELT A
LITTLE DIFFERENTLY IS THINGS
ASKING TO BE IN DONAGH OR NOT
IT REDUCES THE BURDEN ON A
PROPERTY OWNER RELATIVE TO
REQUESTING REZONING SO IF WE DO
NOT INCLUDE IT THEY COULD STILL
REQUEST REZONING TO TAKE ONE
AND CREATE A DONUT WELL
REQUIRING A LOT MORE FRONT END
PROCESS AND COST THAT GETS
ROLLED UP INTO THE TENANTS.
SO I'M ACTUALLY OK WITH DONUT
BECAUSE IT'S LESS COST DIRECTED
THAN TO THE END USER.
SO IN TERMS OF HOW REQUESTED
THAT OUT I WILL READ THE FIRST
TWO CLAUSES OF THE DEED
RESTRICTION BECAUSE THEY ARE
SPECIFIC ABOUT THESE TWO
PARCELS THE OWNERS LAND ON THE
EAST SIDE OF THE COMMONWEALTH
BOULEVARD SHALL BE REZONE TO
OFFICE EXCEPT FOR THE FIRST OFF
PLYMOUTH WHICH SHALL BE REZONE
TO PD.
THERE'S A LITTLE BIT MORE AND
THEN THE OTHER SAYS THE ONLY
PROPERTY THE OWNER THE ONLY
PROPERTY OF THE OWNER TO BE
ZONED ON THE WEST SIDE IT KIND
OF WILL BE THE FIRST LOT WHICH
WILL BE REZONE TO OFFICE SO THE
ONLY THING I READ IN THERE THAT
CAN CREATE STICKY POINTS IS
THAT THE DEED RESTRICTION
REQUIRES THE OWNER TO ZONE
THESE THINGS PUT IN OFFICE
WHICH MEANS WHEN THEY SEE THESE
THINGS COME BACK FOR A REQUEST
TO READ ZONE THEM FROM TAXI ONE
BACK INTO THE SO LIKE THAT'S
JUST A CONDITION THAT WE SEE
THAT I GUESS SIMILAR TO THE IN
THE IF THERE'S POTENTIAL FOR
DEVELOPMENT SO WITHIN THOSE
COOL LIKE TO GET MORE STUFF OUT
OF THEM AS THEY'RE ZONE BUT IT
SOUNDS LIKE THERE'S NO
POTENTIAL FOR DEVELOPMENT IF
THEY GET RESOLVED AT LEAST ON
MY FIRST LEARNING READING
OF THIS THING.
SO I'M REALLY KIND OF LOOKING
AT THINGS LIKE WHAT IS PLAN
LIKE WHEN YOU RIGHT WHICH IS
PRE REZONING OR NOT ON SOME
OF THESE THINGS TO REDUCE STEPS
IN A DEVELOPMENT PROCESS.
AND SO THAT'S JUST KIND OF MY
FILTER.
I IT HELPS THAT THERE'S A
COUPLE MORE STEPS IN THIS
PROCESS WHEN I GO TO THE CITY
COUNCIL FOR ALL THESE PROPERTY
OWNERS TO HAVE FURTHER
DISCUSSIONS BECAUSE IT DOES
FEEL LIKE ALL OF THESE CAME
WITHIN THE LAST WEEK AND SO IN
ALL LETTERS IF THEY WERE
INCLUDED OR EXCLUDED AT THIS
TIME CONVERSATIONS CAN
CONTINUE.
SO I'M NOT GOING TO LOSE SLEEP
OVER WHERE IT LANDS IN EITHER
CASE HERE.
BUT THAT WOULD JUST BE KIND
OF MY FILTER OF READING AND
WHERE THE OPPORTUNITIES AND THE
HARDSHIPS LIVE FOR EACH
OF THOSE PROPERTIES.
BUT OVERALL I LOOK FORWARD TO
WELCOMING HOPEFULLY MORE
RESIDENTS WITH NEW DEVELOPMENT
HERE MAYBE MAYBE BE RENTERS OR
OWNERS BECAUSE BOTH ARE PART
OF OUR COMMUNITY AND BOTH OUR
RESIDENTS
.
COMMISSIONER WEATHERBEE, SO I
WASN'T HERE FOR THE PREVIOUS
ONE AND I DON'T WANT TO MAKE
THIS WICKED STICKIER BUT WHEN I
LOOK AT SOME OF THESE SPACES
LIKE ALL OF COMMONWEALTH, IS
THERE A REASON AT ALL
OF COMMONWEALTH ISN'T ONE AND
THEN IS IF WE GO BACK TO THE
CENTER CENTRAL LIKE WHERE THE
GOOGLE BUILDING IS, IS THERE A
REASON I'M LOOKING AT THE MAP
AND POINTING YOU CAN'T SEE IT
BUT YOU KNOW, WE ALREADY HAVE
LIKE WHERE THERE'S OFFICE OR
PARKING AND THEY'RE RINGED BY
RESIDENTIAL OR STREETS.
IS THERE A REASON THAT THE I
THINK YOU EXPLAINED THAT
BECAUSE THEY CONNECTED TO THE
MAIN STREET BUT LIKE IT IT
SEEMS LIKE WE'RE LEAVING LITTLE
BITS OF OFFICE OR THAT THAT
ACTUALLY IS GOING TO BE MORE
CONFUSING MOVING FORWARD
BECAUSE IT'S NOT TAKE ONE BUT
IT'S LIKE THE ONE BUILDING OR
THERE ARE THREE BUILDINGS THAT
ARE BUT MOST OF NOW OR
EVERYTHING ACROSS THE STREET IS
DC ONE BUT THESE ARE OFFICE AND
IT SEEMS LIKE IN ALL OF THESE
PLACES THERE'S A PRETTY
DISTINCT CUT OFF WHICH IS
EITHER RESIDENTIAL OR THE MAIN
ROAD THAT WE COULD KIND
OF INSTEAD OF HAVING A LINE IT
WOULD BE MORE OF A BLOB AND I'M
JUST LIKE I THINK MY PREFERENCE
BECAUSE I THINK IT GETS
CONFUSING WHEN IT'S THERE'S
OFFICE FOR ONE BUILDING AND
THEN THE NEXT BUILDING IS DC
ONE AND THEN THE BUILDING AFTER
THAT IS PARKING OR LIKE THAT
THAT HAVING SOME SORT OF MORE
DISTINCT AREAS IT SEEMED LIKE
THE EAST SIDE AND GREEN NORTH
AND SOUTH COMMONWEALTH AND THEN
THE LITTLE STRIP BETWEEN HERE
ON PARKWAY AND TRAVER WOULD
DOWN TO PLYMOUTH THAT THAT
THEY'RE PRETTY DISTINCT AREAS
THAT COULD ALL BLOCK ONE IN MY
OPINION.
BUT I DON'T KNOW IF THAT JUST
MAKES THIS MORE COMPLICATED AND
AS WE MOVE FORWARD.
BUT BUT I WOULD BE VERY
COMFORTABLE INCLUDING MORE
THINGS IN THE DC ONE
DESIGNATION
ANY OTHER COMMENTS
?
UM, OH SORRY.
WILL YOU FORGIVE ME?
I MISSED YOUR SUBTLE Q WAS YOUR
WIFE'S NOSE LIKE UNMUTED MYSELF
?
IT'S JUST A POINT
OF CLARIFICATION.
I HAD SAID THAT THE PUBLIC
MEETING SUMMARY WAS POSTED
ONLINE AND THAT WAS WRONG.
THE FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS
DOCUMENT IS ON THE WEBSITE THE
PLANNING COMMITTEE IF I HAVE
THIS CORRECT WE HAVE SINCE
POSTED THE MEETING SUMMARY TO
THE PACKET AND THE REFRESHED SO
AND I BELIEVE YOU'VE BEEN
EMAILED A LINK SO TO ANYONE
WATCHING IF YOU GO USE OUR
AGENDA SERVICE YOU'LL SEE THAT
DOCUMENT AS WELL AND IT MAY OR
MAY NOT HAVE BEEN ALSO WHILE
I'M TALKING PUBLISHED TO THE
WEBSITE BUT NO MATTER FIRST
THING TOMORROW MORNING THE
SLIDE DECK AND IF NEEDED A
PUBLIC MEETING SUMMARY WILL BE
POSTED TO THE PROJECT WEBSITE
AND THE LINKS OF THE PACKET
LINKS HAVE ALREADY BEEN
REFRESHED.
THANK YOU
.
ARE THERE ANY OTHER COMMENTS
FOR DISCUSSION?
SO I'M TRYING TO READ THE TABLE
IN TERMS OF THIS INCLUSION
EXCLUSION QUESTION, IT SEEMS
LIKE THERE ARE A COUPLE
PROPOSALS ON THE TABLE.
MAYBE A FOLLOW UP QUESTION TO
WHAT YOU WERE SAYING
COMMISSIONER SAUV?
UM, MY UNDERSTANDING IS THAT
WHAT COMMISSIONER MILLS WAS
PROPOSING WOULD BE TO INCLUDE
THE TWO PARCELS THAT OXFORD HAS
REQUESTED ON GREEN ROAD AND
ALSO INCLUDE THE PARCEL THAT WE
DID NOT RECEIVE A REQUEST
FOR.
SO I THINK THAT WOULD MEET YOUR
DESIRES.
COMMISSIONER SAUV TO INCLUDE
OXFORDS PARCELS AS A WAY
OF MAKING IT EASY, MAKING A
BURDEN, MAKING IT LESS
BURDENSOME FOR THEM TO REZONE
INCLUDING CITY INITIATED
ZONING.
OK SO THAT ARE THERE ANY
OBJECTIONS TO INCLUDING THOSE
THREE PARCELS THEN AND MR LEO
YOU'RE CONFIRMING THAT THERE'S
NO CON NOTHING OF SORTS IN
TERMS OF PROCESS AND
NOTIFICATION TO INCLUDE THIS
THIRD PARCEL GREEN THAT WE DID
NOT RECEIVE A FORMAL REQUEST
FOR INCLUSION RIGHT.
THAT'S THE THE PUBLIC HEARING
AND THE DELIBERATION PROCESS IS
THAT YOU ARE NOT BOUND BY WHAT
IS EXACTLY IN FRONT OF YOU.
YOU ARE FREE TO AMEND THE ANY
MOTION GREAT.
MAYBE WHILE I'M TALKING
SOMEBODY CAN TRACK DOWN THE
ADDRESS FOR THAT IF WE WHEN IT
COMES TIME TO DO IT YOU OPEN
IT.
OH CAN YOU LET ME KNOW WHAT
THAT IS.
YEAH THE ADDRESS FOR THAT PIECE
UP ON GREENWORLD IS TWENTY FOUR
HUNDRED GREEN ROAD OK AND I'VE
GOT THE PERSONAL ID NUMBER YOU
CAN GO TO READ THAT OUT LOUD
AND OFFICIALLY I DON'T THINK SO
.
OK SO I'M GOING WITH THE THREE
SHEET WHEN IT COMES TIME THE
THREE STREET ADDRESSES OK AND
THEN IN TERMS OF GREEN COURT IS
THERE ANYBODY WHO WANTS TO
DISCUSS FURTHER OR IS OPPOSED
TO INCLUDING THE PROPERTY ON
GREEN COURT?
MR MILLS.
SO I SUPPORTED THE UDC AGAIN
AND I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE IN
OUR INTENT STATEMENT OR PURPOSE
STATEMENT IT TO BE CLEAR IT
DOESN'T LIST PDS.
IT SAYS THIS DISTRICT MAY
REPLACE O R E OR L CB1 THREE
WHAT IT SHOULD ONLY REPLACE
OTHER ZONING DESIGNATIONS IN
UNIQUE AND RARE CIRCUMSTANCES
ONE ANOTHER ZONING DISTRICT IS
ENTIRELY SURROUNDED BY THE
SPECIFICALLY MENTIONED
DISTRICTS.
SO TO YOUR POINT COMMISSIONER,
WHETHER IT BE LIKE THAT'S WHAT
CAUSED ME TO LOOK THIS WHAT
WERE STIPULATIONS BECAUSE WHAT
WE SAID BEFORE WAS THE AND THEN
THE SECOND THE SECOND THING IS
THAT ALL PARCELS ON T ONE
SHOULD BE NO MORE THAN A HALF A
MILE FROM A TRANSIT STOP AND
AND ON THE SOUTH SIDE THIS
THOSE PARCELS TOTALLY MEET THAT
IT'S RIGHT ACROSS THE STREET
FROM A PARK AND RIDE LIKE IT'S
GREAT.
I DON'T KNOW ABOUT THE GOOGLE
PERSON THAT YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT IN PARTICULAR.
I THINK SO.
I MEAN THERE'S A IT'S HARD TO
BE MORE THAN A HALF MILE FROM
TRANSIT STOP IN ANN ARBOR BUT I
JUST THOUGHT I WOULD BRING THAT
UP.
I THINK THAT ONE IS THE BEST
DISTRICT THAT WE GOT FOR THIS
WHAT IS CURRENTLY PUDI THAT
WANTS TO BE A NEW KIND OF PUDI
LIKE I WILL SAY THAT I JUST
WANT TO REMIND US OF THE
PURPOSE STATEMENT THAT WE HAVE
AND I DON'T THINK THAT THIS IS
GOING TO SURROUND IT.
IT DOESN'T MAKE SENSE TO GO
BEYOND IT.
MAYBE THIS IS A RARE
CIRCUMSTANCE IN THAT IT IS
INITIATE LIKE IT WAS CITY
INITIATED.
I DON'T KNOW I DON'T KNOW STAFF
HAS ANY GUIDANCE THAT WE WERE
SPECIFICALLY TALKING ABOUT THE
PARTY AND THE LIKE.
YEAH, YEAH.
SO IF IF YOU ARE INTERESTED IN
EXTENDING THAT FOR THOSE
REASONS I WOULD RECOMMEND YOU
ADD THE PARCELS AGAIN THE
GEOGRAPHY BEING PROPOSED HERE
WAS IN RESPONSE TO THE COUNCIL
DIRECTION.
WE WE DISCUSSED THE GEOGRAPHY
THE PLANNING COMMISSION BASED
ON AN EMPHASIS ON THE PLYMOUTH
ROAD CORRIDOR IN THIS IN THIS
SENSE WE HAVE HAD OTHER
PROPERTY FOR EXAMPLE WE'VE HAD
ONE OTHER PROPERTY IN THE
STADIUM AREA THAT WAS OFF
OF THE CORRIDOR AND APPLYING
SOME OF THE TRANSIT CENTRIC
DESIGN STANDARDS OF THAT SEEMED
LESS APPLICABLE WHEN IT WAS
SORT OF AN ISLAND PARCEL IN
THAT AREA WAS SORT OF BETWEEN
MAPLE AND STADIUM THAT DIDN'T
HAVE FRONTAGE ON EITHER
OF THOSE CALLERS.
I THINK THE OTHER SET BACK
AUDIENCE YOU'VE ALREADY PUT
FORTH THE COUNCIL WILL HELP
ADDRESS SOME OF THAT.
SO I HAVE FRANKLY LESS CONCERN
ABOUT THAT FOR THESE PARCELS
AND TO SOME OF THE OTHER
DISCUSSION THAT CONTINUES THE
CONVERSATION ON THEM I WOULD
HOWEVER SUGGEST THAT YOU OMIT
THE ALTERNATE PROPERTY THAT IS
BEING PURCHASED BY THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN AND
RECOMMEND THAT B ZONE P L LIKE
RIGHT NOW A SEPARATE MOTION BY
EITHER OWN LIKE I WOULD JUST
MAYBE OMITTING IT OR MAKING
THAT RECOMMENDATION AS A
REZONING OF THAT PAD BECAUSE
LONG TERM THAT IS TRADITIONALLY
THE THE TREATMENT OF UNIVERSITY
PROPERTY IS ON APPEAL.
AND SO WHILE WE'RE AT IT MAYBE
THAT'S A CLEANUP WE COULD DO
WHILE WE'RE LOOKING AT THAT
DISTRICT WE CAN ASK THE
UNIVERSITY TO COME BEFORE US
AND REQUEST THAT YOU COULD ASK
AND I WOULD NEED MY SISTER I
ONLY HAVE ONE ADDRESS FOR THIS
WHOLE FOUR PART THING THIRTY
FIVE TWENTY GREEN COURT.
SO MAYBE WE NEED TO DEFINE THAT
FURTHER SO THAT WE COULD
EXCLUDE THE WHOLE TERM BUILDING
THE OF THE PARCEL FROM ALTARUM
THAT YOU HAVE MS PERSONS THAT
THE VACANT ONE NO ONE SOUTH
OF THAT OK GOT IT.
THAT IS YOU'LL HAVE TO I IT'S
THIRTY FIVE TWENTY GREEN IS THE
PROPERTY THAT THEY'RE
PURCHASING THE FOUR ADDRESS THE
FOUR PARCELS THAT MAKE GREEN
COURT ARE AND UNADDRESSED GREEN
COURT AND I DO HAVE THE PARCEL
ID NUMBER ENDING IN ZERO ZERO
EIGHT AND THEN IT INCLUDES
THIRTY FIVE TWENTY THIRTY SIX
HUNDRED AND THIRTY FIVE FIFTY
GREEN COURT.
SO OF THOSE FOUR ONE IS
PERSONAL ID NUMBER ENDING AND
ZERO ZERO ZERO EIGHT AND THEN
SIXTEEN HUNDRED AND THIRTY FIVE
FIFTY BUT IT SOUNDS THAT WE
WILL BE EXCLUDING THIRTY FIVE
TWENTY IN IN IN THAT PUDI
SQUARE IT'S NOT ONE HUNDRED
PERCENT SQUARE BUT IT IS WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT THE SOUTHWEST
CORNER THAT IS BEING EXCLUDED
NOW IS THAT RIGHT.
THAT'S CORRECT.
OK SO EVERYTHING AROUND IT THAT
MAKES SENSE
.
I'M SORRY PLANALTO SO INCLUDED
WE ARE INCLUDING THERE ARE
THREE THOUSAND NOW THERE ARE
FIVE PARCELS TOTAL THAT MAKE UP
THIS BLOCK I SEE ONE FOR
THERE
MURFIE THANK YOU.
OH YES THERE'S THREE ON THE
NORTH SIDE WE ARE EXCLUDING
THIRTY FIVE TWENTY GREEN COURT
AND WE INCLUDING OF ADDING
THIRTY FIVE THIRTY FIVE WE ARE
ADDING THIRTY FIVE THIRTY FIVE
THIRTY FIVE FIFTY THIRTY SIX
HUNDRED AND THE PERSONAL ENDING
AND ZERO ZERO EIGHT MAYBE I'LL
JUST LOOK FOR I'LL GIVE YOU A
MINUTE AND THEN MAYBE ASK FOR
CONFIRMATION OF THAT ME TO TELL
YOU AGAIN OR DID YOU WERE YOU
WELL IT'S SOUNDS TO ME DO ALL
OF THEM ARE JUST GREEN COURT I
JUST WANT THE FOUR AND GREEN
COURT THAT WE ARE INCLUDING.
ALL RIGHT.
WE ARE INCLUDING THIRTY FIVE
THIRTY FIVE GREEN COURT THIRTY
FIVE FIFTY GREEN COURT AND
THIRTY SIX HUNDRED GREEN COURT
AND GREEN COURT PASSELL ID
NUMBER OH OH NINE TWENTY THREE
ONE HUNDRED DASH ZERO ZERO
EIGHT.
SO I'M GOING TO ENDING IN ZERO
ZERO EIGHT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH THAT I HAVE
THAT YEAH.
ARE THERE ANY OTHER AMENDMENTS
TO THE MOTION THAT I MISSED
COMMISSIONER I JUST FOR POINT
OF CLARIFICATION ARE WE
EXCLUDING IN THE REZONING THE
EUBAM PROPERTY ARE INCLUDING
BUT ADDING A ZONING DISTRICT TO
THE REZONING PACKAGE ARE THE
AMENDMENT ON THE TABLE?
WE CAN AMEND THE AMENDMENT.
THE AMENDMENT ON THE TABLE
WOULD BE TO INCLUDE THE FOUR
PERSONS IN THAT BLOCK THAT ARE
NOT BY U OF M AND TO EXCLUDE
THE OF M PARCEL WHICH WE ASSUME
WILL BE REZONE TO PUBLIC LAND
AT SOME FUTURE DATE.
YEAH BUT YOU COULD YOU COULD
ALSO ADD AN ADDITIONAL
AMENDMENT TO ALSO RECOMMEND
REZONING OF THIRTY FIVE TWENTY
GREENPORT TO PUBLIC LAND BUT WE
HAVE SOME OTHER CLEAN UP THAT
WE HAVE TO DO IN THAT REGARD SO
I THINK WE COULD INCLUDE THAT.
I WILL FOLLOW THAT TO THE
BODIES BUT FOR ME THAT SEEMS
OUT OF PLACE WITH DC ONE MOTION
SO I WOULD JUST RECOMMEND
EXCLUDING THAT DOES THAT MAKES
SENSE?
ALL THIS TALK OF PUBLIC LAND
MAKES ME WONDER ABOUT THE POST
OFFICE IF WE CAN GO BACK UP
GREEN ROAD FOR JUST A MINUTE
BECAUSE NOW THAT IS THE ONLY
OFFICE LEFT ON GREEN ROAD AND I
DON'T IT'S FEDERAL.
SO HOW DOES THAT WORK?
ARE THEY SUBJECT ZONING?
SO THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IS
NOT AND WE WE HAVE PROPOSED THE
REZONING OF ANOTHER FEDERAL
PROPERTY IN THIS TO TAKE ONE
.
I'M TRYING TO I CAN'T SPECULATE
OF THE LIKELIHOOD OF A FEDERAL
PROPERTY BEING MADE AVAILABLE
FOR REDEVELOPMENT AT A PACE
RELATIVE TO THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN.
BUT I MIGHT ACTUALLY GUESS THAT
IT'S MORE LIKELY SO IT'S
FEDERALLY OWNED IT COULD IT
WHATEVER YOU ZONE IT THEY'RE
NOT SUBJECT TO.
HOWEVER, IF YOU WANTED TO
REZONE THAT TO TAKE ON AS IS
BEING PROPOSED THE EPA
LABORATORY ALONG THIS CORRIDOR
THAT WOULD RESTRICT IT SHOULD
THAT EVER CHANGE HANDS, I WOULD
VOTE FOR ITS INCLUSION.
OK, SO IF WE CAN GET THE
ADDRESS FOR THE FOR THAT TO
LOOK THAT ONE UP I WOULD JUST
ADD OUR HABITS LONGSTANDING
HABITS REGARDING APL ZONING IS
LAND OWNED BY THE CITY WHETHER
WHETHER IT BE A CITY FACILITY
LIKE THE WATER TREATMENT PLANT
OR PARKS LAND OWNED BY THE
COUNTY AND LAND OWNED BY THE
STATE IN THE FORM OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN AND LAND
OWNED BY THE SCHOOLS HAS BEEN
ZONED WE DON'T HISTORICALLY FOR
WHATEVER REASON ZONED LAND THAT
IS OWNED BY THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT AND THERE IS SOME US
POST OFFICES AH SOME THE EPA
LABS OR SOME WE ZONE THEM ARE
TRADITIONAL ZONING DISTRICTS.
THEY ARE NOT SUBJECT TO ZONING
BUT IT IS SORT OF THE MESSAGE
THAT WE SEND ON THE ZONING MAP
AND THAT THAT'S WHAT WE WE LIKE
THE ZONING MAP TO BE CLEAR
ABOUT WHAT IS SUBJECT TO ZONING
AND WHAT IS NOT.
AND SO EVEN THOUGH IT'S NOT
ZONED IT'S THE ZONING
APPLICABILITY IS BASED ON
OWNERSHIP SUPER THAT INTEREST
FOR YOU AND FOR THE ZONING
NERDS OUT THERE LIKE THIS IS
LIKE PLANNING LAW IN TERMS
OF LOWER LEVELS OF GOVERNMENT
REGULATING HIGHER LEVELS
OF GOVERNMENT.
WE DON'T GET TO TALK ABOUT THAT
VERY MUCH BUT YEAH, ANY OTHER
AMENDMENTS TO KNOW ABOUT BEFORE
I FORMALLY PROPOSES MR LEINERT?
NO TO ASK COMMISSIONER
DESCRIBED THE CHOCOLATE THANK
YOU FOR THE CHOCOLATE YOUR PUT
THREE THOUSAND THANK
ELECTRICITY.
MY UNDERSTANDING IS WE ARE I
JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT I
AM CLEAR ADDING OXFORD
PROPERTIES AS REQUESTED ADDING
THE CREDIT UNION ADDING FOUR
PARCELS ON GREEN COURT ADDING
THE POST OFFICE AND THE POST
OFFICE ARE PERSONAL NUMBERS
ZERO NINE ZERO NINE FOURTEEN
ONE HUNDRED FOR THREE SIX ALSO
KNOWN AS THREE THOUSAND GREEN
RED SEAMAP OK SO I'M GOING TO
MOVE THEN FORMALLY OH
COMMISSIONER MILLS I'M JUST
GOING BACK IT'S IT'S BEEN A
WHILE IT'S BEEN A MINUTE SINCE
WE DID THE OTHER ONE DISPATCH
AND IT'S THE IT'S THE
PETITIONER ASKING TO BE
EXCLUDED.
I DON'T I CAN'T THINK OF THIS
IN THE PAST AND AGAIN
PARTICULARLY IF WE KNOW IF WE
HAVE IN OUR PACKET STUFF THAT
SUGGESTS TO US THAT IN ORDER TO
UPHOLD THEIR THINK THEY'RE
GOING TO HAVE TO COME BACK AND
ASK TO BE RESOLVED.
IT IT SEEMS TO ME LIKE IT'S
LIKE IF THEY THEY SAID DON'T
RELY ON ME AND WE KNOW WHY THEY
ARE SAYING THIS IT SEEMS LIKE
MAYBE WE SHOULD EXCLUDE THE
PROPERTIES THAT ARE THERE AS TO
NOT BE INCLUDED IN THE FIRST
MARTIN PROPERTIES.
I UNDERSTAND WHAT YOU'RE SAYING
AND ALSO IT SEEMS LIKE THE DEED
RESTRICTION IS ILLEGAL OR I
DON'T.
THAT'S RIGHT.
WORD YOU CAN'T HAVE A DEED
RESTRICTION THAT REQUIRES YOU
TO ZONE SOMETHING A CERTAIN WAY
BECAUSE IT'S NOT UP TO THE
PROPERTY OWNER TO DO SO.
RIGHT.
SO SO I DON'T IT'S ALSO ODD FOR
US TO COMPLY WITH AN IMPROPER
DEED RESTRICTION OR RECIPROCAL
COVENANT.
BUT BECAUSE ALSO IF THEY COME
BACK TO US THEY CAN'T SAY I
MEAN IF THEY COME BACK TO US TO
ASK FOR REZONING BUT THEY
LITERALLY DON'T HAVE ANY
CONTROL OVER IT.
SO HOW CAN THEY SIGN A CONTRACT
SAYING THAT THEY WILL DO IT?
THEY CAN ONLY SAY THAT THEY
WILL TRY.
YEAH, AND OK.
SO I DIDN'T KNOW IF YOUR
INTENTION IN CALLING OUT YOUR
INTENTION AND CALLING OUR
ATTENTION TO THAT WAS THAT YOU
THOUGHT WE SHOULD ACT ON THAT
OR YOU JUST WANTED US TO KNOW
IT?
I MEAN IT HAS CONSEQUENCES IN
EITHER DIRECTION IS ALL I KIND
OF POINT OUT.
AND SO IT'S TRYING TO MEASURE
THE LESSER OF THE TWO IDEALS
OF WATER OPTIONS.
AH, I THINK THIS ONE WE HAVE
SOME KIND OF LEGAL BINDING
ADDITIONAL STUFF THAT WE CAN
REFERENCE.
IT WOULD BE VERY HESITANT
RELATIVE TO REMOVING A REQUEST
BECAUSE THE PLAN COULD BE AND
PLANNING A DRIVE THROUGH OR
SOMETHING ELSE IT DOESN'T SEEM
LIKE THAT'S THE CASE AND WITHIN
THE PDR OR OFFICE IT WOULD BE A
SPECIAL EXCEPTION WHICH COULD
EASILY BE DENIED FOR DRIVE
THROUGH SPECIFICALLY BUT IT
DOES LEAVE A WEIRD EXTRA PARCEL
ALSO TO THE SOUTH.
BUT I THINK IN THE I'M ALSO
JUST MEASURING IT ON PROCESSING
COST AND THEN IF WE DO INCLUDE
IT WE MAY ADD PROCESSING COST
EVEN IT'S NOT GRANTED THAT COST
WILL GET ROLLED UP SOMEWHERE IN
A FUTURE DEVELOPMENT OF THAT
PROJECT AND WE KNOW WHERE THAT
COST GOES AND IT'S IT'S TO WHO
OCCUPIES THESE PROPERTIES.
AND SO THE OBJECTIVE FOR
HOUSING IS TO MAYBE REDUCE SOME
OF THOSE COSTS AND HOPE THAT IT
REDUCES THE OVERALL COST
OF HOUSING.
SO I MEAN I'M AGAIN I'M OPEN TO
BOTH.
THIS IS NOT THE END TABLE.
I JUST KIND OF RAISE IT MORE
THAN ANYTHING.
SO I'M I'M COMFORTABLE IN
EITHER DIRECTION.
THANK YOU.
THOSE ARE GOOD POINTS ALTHOUGH
IT CAN'T BE DEVELOPED INTO
HOUSING AS IT CURRENTLY THE
DEED RESTRICTION RESTRICTS IT
FROM BEING HOUSING ANYWAY.
IT RESTRICTS IT FROM NOT BEING
ZONED OFFICE FOR PUDI AND A
CERTAIN SIZE THERE'S NOTHING IN
THE DATA THAT SAYS IT CAN'T BE
HOUSING THAT'S ZONED OFFICE NOT
USED.
THERE'S ZONING AND THERE'S USE
COMMISSIONER WHICH WILL COULD
YOU REMIND ME DIDN'T WE HAVE A
PETITIONER IN STADIUM WHO
REQUESTED EXCLUSION?
WASN'T IT BECAUSE MORE AND
PEOPLE VILLAGE YES WE GREX MORE
ASKED TO BE EXCLUDED AND THAT
THEY WERE INCLUDED BUT WE
INCLUDED THEM EVEN THOUGH THEY
ASKED TO BE EXCLUDED AND THERE
WAS ALSO A PROPERTY I FEEL LIKE
ON COLLINGWOOD THAT ASKED TO BE
INCLUDED AND THEY WERE NOT
INCLUDED.
OK, SO I MOVE TO AMEND OUR
MOTION RIGHT NOW IT SAYS AT
LAST TREES AS SHOWN ON THE
ATTACHED ORDINANCE I MOVE THAT
WE AMEND THAT TO SAY AS SHOWN
ON THE ATTACHED ORDINANCE AND
THE FOLLOWING PARCELS THREE
THOUSAND GREEN ROAD TWENTY
THREE FIFTY GREEN ROAD TWENTY
FOUR HUNDRED GREEN ROAD AND
TWENTY FIVE HUNDRED AND TWENTY
SIX HUNDRED GREEN ROAD AND
THIRTY FIVE THIRTY FIVE THIRTY
FIVE FIFTY GREEN COURT THIRTY
SIX HUNDRED GREEN AND THE
PARCEL ID ENDING IN ZERO ZERO
EIGHT WHICH IS ALSO ON GREEN
CARD AND CURRENTLY UNDEVELOPED
CAN GET ANYBODY TO SECOND THAT
MOTION SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
WHICH IS A DISCUSSION OF THE
AMENDMENT MIXED KELLY WOULD YOU
LIKE TO US TO DO A ROLL CALL
VOTE ON THE AMENDMENT TO THE
AMEND TO THE MOTION OR A VOICE
FOR I THINK EITHER WOULD BE
APPROPRIATE?
RIGHT.
WE WILL DO A VOICE VOTE ON THE
AMENDMENT TO THE MOTION.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY AY AY
ALL OPPOSED THE MOTION CARRIES.
SO WE'RE BACK IN DISCUSSION
OF THE AMENDED MOTION.
ANY FURTHER COMMENTS?
ALL RIGHT.
I BELIEVE WE'RE READY FOR A
ROLL CALL VOTE
ON THE AMENDED
MOTION COMMISSIONER ABRAMS.
YES, COMMISSIONER WISCH.
YES.
COMMISSIONER SERVAIS YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH YES.
COMMISSIONER CLARK YES.
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
YES.
COMMISSIONER.
WHETHER IT BE YES CARRIES THANK
YOU.
WE WILL GIVE A MOMENT TO
COMMISSIONER LEA TO REJOIN THE
BODY.
SHOULD WE TAKE A TWO MINUTE
BREAK THE THREE MINUTE BREAK
OK, WE'LL RECONVENE AT NINE
FIFTY FIVE
I CALLING US BACK TO
ORDER.
THANKS GUYS.
WE'RE MOVING TO SECTION ELEVEN
PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS A SECOND OPPORTUNITY
FOR PERSONS TO SPEAK UP AT
THREE MINUTES ABOUT ANY ISSUE
THAT IS NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC
HEARING ON THIS AGENDA WILL
FIRST INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO
ADDRESS THE COMMISSION, THEN
REMOTE PARTICIPANTS AND SO TO
SPEAK DURING THIS PUBLIC
HEARING ROLI PLEASE PRESS STAR
NINE AT FELICIE BY PHONE PLEASE
USE THE PHRASE HAND FEATURE IF
VIEWING THROUGH THE WEBLINK FOR
PHONE ACCESS PLEASE CALL EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND ENTER
MEANING ID NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX
SIX THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS
THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND AND
USING THE LAST THREE DIGITS
OF THE PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME
IF AVAILABLE YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE
HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK.
SO WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO
A QUIET AREA MUTE ANY
BACKGROUND NOISES SO THAT WE
CAN HEAR YOU CLEARLY AND FOR
EITHER METHOD PLEASE STATE YOUR
NAME AND ADDRESS AT THE
BEGINNING OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME
?
ACTUALLY I HAVE A FEW RANDOM
COMMENTS.
THANKS COMMISSIONER LEE FOR THE
THIRTY FIVE TWENTY GREENE ROAD
ADDITION TO THE TWENTY THIRTY I
UNDERSTAND WHAT YOU DID IT IS
MUCH CLEANER BUT WE WERE ON THE
VERGE OF GETTING
ELECTRIFICATION COMMITMENT IN
THIS NEW PD AND NOW THAT'S OFF
THE TABLE SO I'M DISAPPOINTED
AND IT GETS TO MY ISSUES WITH
THIS ONE TO BEGIN WITH AND THE
LACK OF ANY KIND
OF COMPREHENSIVE APPROACH
CLIMATE ON THE PART OF THE CITY
REMINDS ME ON THE INTERNATIONAL
LEVEL OF THE PARIS CLIMATE
AGREEMENT EVERYONE MAKES THESE
COMMITMENTS BUT NONE OF THEM
ARE REQUIRED SO EVERYONE
IGNORES THEM.
WE HAVE ZERO PLAN BUT IT'S
CLEARLY FAILING FOR THE SAME
REASON.
SO YEAH, I MEAN THE WHOLE WORLD
IS FAILING A CLIMATE SO WHY
SHOULD WE BE DIFFERENT WHEN I'M
MAYBE I'M NAIVE.
I THOUGHT MAYBE WE WOULD BE BUT
NOW I'VE PRETTY MUCH LOST HOPE
.
I'M NOT BLAMING YOU GUYS.
YOU'VE GOT TO DO WHAT YOU'VE
GOT TO DO REGARDING ENFORCING
THE UDC AND YOUR CRITERIA.
BUT SOMETHING HAS TO HAPPEN
HERE ON THE YOU'RE NOT TIMING
ME AND YOU'RE GIVING ME
UNLIMITED TIME HERE.
OH OK.
YEAH.
GOTCHA.
OK ANYWAY ON SERTORI YEAH.
JUST TO CLARIFY MY COMMENTS
ABOUT THE PUBLIC SUBSIDY MY
UNDERSTANDING WAS THAT THE
BROWNFIELD PLAN WAS TWO POINT
SEVEN MILLION AND THAT TWO
POINT SIX MILLION OF THAT WAS
NOT ENVIRONMENTAL COSTS SO I
WAS COUNTING THAT TWO POINT SIX
MILLION I WAS COUNTING THE
CITIES TWELVE YEARS FIFTY
PERCENT TAX ABATEMENT WHICH WAS
NEVER QUANTIFIED BUT LOOKING AT
THE TAX TABLES TO ME I WAS
GUESSING AROUND THREE MILLION
AND THEN THE STATE GAVE THEM A
ONE POINT TWO MILLION DOLLAR
GRANT.
I THINK THAT COMES TO LIKE SIX
POINT EIGHT MILLION BUT I'M NOT
IT COULD BE WRONG ABOUT THREE
MILLION.
THAT'S JUST MY BEST GUESS.
BUT COMMISSIONER, WISE COMMENT
THAT MAYBE THAT SHOULD BE
INCLUDED IN STAFF REPORTS.
I AGREE FOR CONTEXT.
WE KEEP HEARING FROM DEVELOPERS
LIKE THE ONE TONIGHT ABOUT ALL
THE EXTRA THINGS THEY'RE DOING
ON TOP OF THE CITY
REQUIREMENTS.
WHAT WE SHOULD HEAR ABOUT WHAT
EXTRA BUT WE DON'T SEE THAT IN
THE STAFF REPORT AND WE HAVE TO
DEPEND ON AMATEURS LIKE ME TO
BRING YOU UP TO DATE ON THAT.
WE SAW THAT ALSO WITH THE
ROBERTSON BROTHERS DEVELOPMENT
WHERE I DON'T KNOW HOW MANY
TIMES MR LUNDGREN CLAIMED
CREDIT FOR THE ELECTRIFICATION
OF ONE HUNDRED SIXTY FOUR
SINGLE FAMILY HOMES ON THAT
WELL IN FACT THE CITY IS PAYING
FOR THAT THROUGH THE BROWNHILL
PLAN TWO POINT NINE MILLION FOR
COMBINED FOR THOSE HEAT PUMPS
PLUS SOLAR PANELS ON THE
CLUBHOUSE AND THE SOLAR
STREETLIGHTS.
SO THAT SHOULD HAVE BEEN IN THE
STAFF REPORT SO WE CAN CALL THE
BLUFF OF SOME OF THESE
DEVELOPERS WHO ARE CLAIMING
EXTRA CREDIT FOR THINGS THAT WE
THE TAXPAYERS ARE FOOTING THE
BILL FOR.
SO THOSE MY COMMENTS.
THANK YOU FOR ALL YOUR WORK AND
FOR TOLERATING MY CONSTANT
PRESENCE HERE.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, MR. GARBER.
IS THERE ANYONE THAT WOULD LIKE
TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
REMOTELY?
THANK YOU.
AND FOR WHAT IT'S WORTH, THANK
YOU FOR YOUR SERVICE AND IN
YOUR ENGAGEMENT.
MOVING ON TO SECTION 12, IS
THERE ANY COMMISSION PROPOSED
BUSINESS COMMISSIONER WHICH I
DIDN'T HAVE THIS WHEN WE WERE
TALKING ABOUT THE RESEARCH
DRIVE IN FRONT OF ME.
I KNEW IT WAS IN THE I JUST
DIDN'T KNOW WHERE IT WAS.
SO I HAVE POTENTIALLY REQUESTS
I GUESS I'LL START WITH A
REQUEST AND THEN YOU ALL CAN
TELL ME WHAT THE RESULT OF THAT
REQUEST IS FIVE POINT THIRTEEN
POINT FOUR BARis RESEARCH
DISTRICT SUBSECTION B POINT
FIVE LISTS EMISSIONS AS A
HEALTH CONSIDERATION WHEN
APPROVING SITE PLANS THAT ARE
IN THAT DISTRICT.
WHAT DOES THAT MEAN IF NOT THE
CONTRIBUTION TO OUR CLIMATE
CHANGE AND THEN IT'S REPEATED
IN FIVE POINT THIRTEEN POINT
FIVE OH OUR OFFICE AND RESEARCH
SUBSECTION B POINT SIX.
SO I WOULD LOVE TO KNOW DOES DO
THOSE TWO STATEMENTS
HAVE
MEANING AND IF THEY HAVE
MEANING WHAT HOW SHOULD WE
CONSIDER THAT MEETING ALSO IN
THE UDC?
SO THIS IS IN THE SAME REQUEST
IT SAYS THAT SITE PLANS THAT
COME BEFORE THE PLANNING
COMMISSION THE DEVELOPMENT WILL
NOT HAVE A DETRIMENTAL IMPACT
OR EFFECT ON THE PUBLIC HEALTH
,SAFETY OR WELFARE OF OUR
COMMUNITY.
AGAIN, MY QUESTION IS DOES THAT
STATEMENT HAVE MEANING SO AND
IF HE DOES, HOW THEN SHOULD WE
CONSIDER THAT?
AND I YOU YOU ARE NOT HERE TO
WORK WITH MISKELLY AND I HAD
THIS CONVERSATION BECAUSE I I
MENTIONED THAT I'VE BROUGHT
THIS UP BEFORE AND YOU HAVE YOU
AND I HAVE EXCHANGED WORDS
ABOUT IT BUT WE DON'T HAVE TO
DO IT TONIGHT.
BUT I WOULD LIKE TO UNDERSTAND
HOW THESE THREE POINTS THAT SIT
WITHIN THE UDC WOULD BE ABLE OR
HOW WE SHOULD INTERPRET THEM AS
WE'RE APPROVING SITE PLANS AND
IF THEY DON'T ACTUALLY MEAN
WHAT THEY WHAT IT APPEARS THAT
IT MEANS ON ITS PLAIN READING,
THEN THERE SHOULD BE SOME
CLARIFICATION OF HOW WE SHOULD
APPLY IT OR WE SHOULD KEEP IT
UP FOR REMOVAL BECAUSE I THINK
TO ME IT JUST FEELS
DISINGENUOUS TO PROVE SOMETHING
THAT I KNOW IS GOING TO HAVE A
DETRIMENTAL IMPACT ON THE
CLIMATE AND SAY THAT IT DOES
NOT SO THAT THOSE ARE MY
REQUESTS BASED ON IT AND I
DIDN'T HAVE THAT AT THE TIME
THAT WE WERE IN THE DISCUSSION
BUT HAD I HAD IT I COULD HAVE
RAISED IT AND ASKED FOR A
POSTPONEMENT SO LOOK, HEALTH,
SAFETY AND WELFARE IS A
BUSINESS FOR POLICE.
OUR LAWS THAT IS ALSO A POLICE
ZONING IS A POLICE POWER LAW.
THE WAY YOU DEFINE WHAT PUBLIC
HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELFARE AS
IS BY THE ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE
STANDARDS IN APPLYING
DEVELOPMENT TO MEET THOSE
STANDARDS IT IS NOT A TAGLINE
THAT CAN BE INVOKED TO SAY THAT
I DON'T THINK IT MEETS THESE
STANDARDS AND THEREFORE I THINK
THIS IS INAPPROPRIATE PUBLIC
HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELFARE IS
THE WAY THAT IS THE REASON THAT
WE CREATE LAWS TO GOVERN HOW
DEVELOPMENT HAPPENS.
WE WE ANSWER WHAT THAT MEANS BY
THE ADOPTION OF THE STANDARDS
IN OUR UDC AND OTHER CODES
THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
SO IN THE PAST THERE HAVE BEEN
COMMUNITIES AND IN THE PAST WE
HAVE INVOKED THAT AS A FINDING
THAT IS NOT A FINDING THAT THAT
IS THE BASIS WHY WE ENACT
ORDINANCES AND STANDARDS AND
MEASURE DEVELOPMENTS TO THOSE
STANDARDS.
ASK FOR YOUR FIRST QUESTION.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT THAT'S
INTENDED BECAUSE I CAN WE CAN
WORK ON TRYING TO ANSWER THAT.
MY INITIAL THOUGHT IS THAT
LANGUAGE THAT IS PROBABLY
EXISTED IN THIS CODE SINCE THE
FIFTIES AND IT'S BEEN PUT
FORWARD SO BUT I CAN TRY TO DO
OUR BEST TO ANSWER WHAT THAT
MEANS.
SO AND SPECIFICALLY FOR ME IT'S
THE EMISSIONS OF AIR POLLUTION.
THAT'S WHAT WE HAVE WRITTEN IN
OUR CODE TO AND THERE ARE IN
THE TWO DISTRICTS AND THEY WERE
IN THE TWO DISTRICTS THAT WE
WERE CONSIDERING TONIGHT.
SO IT WAS AN APPROPRIATE SET
OF QUESTIONS THAT WE HAD FOR
THIS PETITIONER EXCEPT I DON'T
KNOW HOW WHEN YOU SAY IT'S A
IT'S THE WAY THAT WE DO THE
POLICE POWERS THEN MY
EXPECTATION THEN WOULD BE THERE
IS A CITY DEPARTMENT THAT MAKES
A JUDGMENT ON THE EMISSIONS
OF THE AIR POLLUTION AND THEN
THAT COMES TO US AND SAYS IT
MEETS THIS STANDARD SO IT CAN
GO FORWARD.
IF YOU'RE SAYING THAT WE DON'T
HAVE THE ABILITY AT THE TABLE
TO RESTRICT SOMETHING OTHERWISE
WE SHOULD PUT IT ON OUR WORK
PLAN TO HAVE IT REMOVED IF IT
DOESN'T HAVE AN ENFORCEABILITY
IN THE CODE .
THANK YOU FOR BRINGING THAT UP
AND I DO THINK THAT THERE'S
ACTUALLY SOME REASONABLE BASIS
TO TAKE A LOOK AT THAT ONE.
YOU'RE ABSOLUTELY RIGHT B FIVE
EMISSIONS OF AIR POLLUTION
SHALL NOT BE DETRIMENTAL TOLD
TO PUBLIC WELFARE SO I THINK
THAT'S DEFINITELY SOMETHING
THAT WE SHOULD DISCUSS FURTHER
.
ASIDE FROM THAT, DO WE HAVE ANY
OTHER COMMISSION PROPOSED
BUSINESS
BEING DONE?
I'M GOING TO MOVE TO ADJOURN
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER THIS
THIS MEETING IS ADJOURNED.
THANK YOU AGAIN